An ally close to De Lille described the possible new party as “to the left of the DA, but the right of the ANC - in the centre”. De Lille announced her resignation as mayor and quit the DA this week after she filed an application to have two Bowmans Gilfillan law firm reports reviewed and set aside. “I am free, free from oppression,” said De Lille, adding that she wanted to put the ordeal behind her. In one report on corruption and maladministration in the City of Cape Town De Lille was found to have been complicit in irregularities, while in the second report she is cleared of wrongdoing. The reports were tabled in council last week. The DA’s former chief whip in the City of Cape Town Shaun August said he and other De Lille supporters were mulling over several options, one of which could be a new political party. “I’ve been approached by many people, many political parties have asked that I join them and I’m still applying my mind on which direction (I’ll go). We’re also applying our mind as a collective should there be a conversation to move into a political space. So there’s no clear cut answer as yet. “There’s conversations happening with individual community leaders, we’re engaging constituencies, we’re engaging people whether they’re funders or not,” said August. Explaining his decision to leave the party, August said he could no longer be part of the DA as he did not believe the party had the people’s best interests at heart. “I have had enough. There is an over-concentration of resources for affluent communities which are mostly white, while our black communities such as Gugulethu, Khayelitsha and Mitchell’s Plain are under-resourced.” He identified a need for a back-to-basics approach in the politics of South Africa. “We still have kids going to schools with broken shoes, no lunch boxes, learning on empty stomachs with no protection. But in areas such as Sea Point there is an over-concentration of resources where police are protecting the affluent communities. When you speak out about these things, you get voted out and bullied within the party,” said August. He was of the view that an “imbalance of resources” were being perpetuated by the DA. “Certain individuals do as they please because they have the political muscle. There is a cabal in the city that reinforces the current widespread inequality,” he said. On Thursday former mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron was the eighth councillor in two weeks to resign in connection with the De Lille fallout. He denied plans to revive the Independent Democrats (ID), saying that made no sense. De Lille’s bête noir in the DA and City of Cape Town, JP Smith, said he had heard that the ID would be revived under a different name and that it was already in the process of acquiring office space. Some DA members pointed out that part of the deal which saw De Lille collapse the ID into the DA was that the party’s debts, accrued over the seven years of its existence, would be settled. This point still rankles with those inside the DA after De Lille’s actions over the past year. A former senior DA member in the Western Cape described the exit of nine councillors, including De Lille, as “a huge ball-buster for the DA”. “It’s something they still don’t know how to handle, they can’t comprehend what is happening. They’ve not handled the situation well with the media, the usual media spin that those people (who left the DA) were corrupt is not working. This week was a win for Patricia and a huge loss for the DA and it will take some time for them to recover.”. Yesterday the DA announced that its Western Cape council had endorsed Dan Plato to become Cape Town’s newest mayor. He’s expected to be elected at a special council sitting on Tuesday. UWC politics professor Cherrel Africa said De Lille would have to weigh up the pros and cons of starting a new political party versus joining an established one. “On the one hand, it takes time for new parties to become institutionalised. “On the other hand, current surveys show disillusionment with the ANC, DA and EFF for a number of reasons. “Typically new parties face substantial challenges in drawing voters; however, given her profile and experience, as well as the fact that several councillors have resigned in support of her, she may be able to capitalise on the prevailing mood in the province,” said Africa. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela used social media to wish De Lille all the best with the next chapter in her life. “Sad to see De Lille leave the City. I found her very responsive and accountable to the most humble of citizens during my term as @PublicProtector. “ @WeekendArgus  wknews@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus