But the City of Cape Town said this week it was looking at fresh attempts to find alternative ways to address the striking workers’ grievances. Details of what was being explored were not immediately available, but the workers vowed to continue with industrial action until they received a positive response to their demand of being “insourced” or directly employed by the council. Routes that have been impacted by the unprotected strike, resulting in reduced frequency of the bus service and overcrowding, include the inner-city, Hout Bay and Hangberg, Table View, Atlantis and parts of Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha. The strike has also had an adverse effect on traffic flows, increasing congestion and putting additional strain on commuters who were already hard pressed to deal with safety problems on public transport. A meeting on November 6 under the auspices of the SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council and attended by representatives of the striking workers, the council and the companies contracted by the council to operate the MyCiTi service, as well as the company operating the MyCiTi stations, reached an impasse. The companies include Table Bay Rapid Transport, Kidrogen and Trans Peninsula Investments. “The meeting provided a platform for the parties to sit down together for the first time and for the workers to express their views. But the talks collapsed immediately after one of the companies demanded that the workers pay for the damages caused to vandalised buses,” regional secretary of the National Union for Metalworkers of South Africa, Vuyo Lufele said. A meeting scheduled for Wednesday was called off and the union was told that the council was pulling out of the bargaining council talks and recommended that the operating compamoes follow disciplinary procedures where applicable. The city’s decision apparently came after a meeting it held with the companies with which it had long-term contracts, some up to 2023/4. Should the city decide to cancel the contracts sooner, it could face financial penalties. Lufele said only a political intervention would now resolve the matter. The Cape Chamber of Industries said the city “knows that if it gives in there will immediately be similar demands” from workers from other companies contracted to supply services to it. “It is a complex situation. Part of the problem is that the city pays wages and salaries above market rates and provides excellent benefits. While it does this there will always be demands for direct employment,” said the Chamber’s president, Janine Myburgh. She urged the workers and their employers to return to the negotiating table to deal with their problem. It is understood, however, that the workers met Mayor Dan Plato on Thursday but the details of the outcome were not clear. The city obtained a court interdict against the striking workers last month after it alleged the EFF had hijacked the action for its own political agenda. The move also came after female bus drivers were held hostage, passengers chased out of MyCiTi stations and some buses stoned. A spokesperson for the striking workers, Patrick Mabindisa, said had the city accepted their memorandum of grievances on the first day of the strike, it would not have been prolonged. bulelwa.payi@inl.co.za Weekend Argus