As #BlackFriday invades all of our thoughts this week, we take a look at some the best savings SA's big stores are offering. Pick n Pay Hypermarkets across the country will launch their limited Black Friday deals on Friday. Customers can expect up to 60% off various items including fridges, televisions, appliances and pool products. “We promised our customers our biggest Black Friday ever. We’ve worked closely with our suppliers to negotiate lower prices and extra stock so that we can offer our customers the best deals over a few days and not just Black Friday. “We also wanted to do something different for our customers this year so that everyone can maximise their savings without having to tackle the store on Black Friday – one of our busiest trading days,” said John Bradshaw, head of marketing at Pick n Pay. Customers are encouraged to get in-store early to avoid disappointment as some of the Black Friday Pick n Pay Hypermarket deals have limited units available. Pick n Pay has also limited some of the deals to a specific number per customer to ensure more customers enjoy these great deals. On actual Black Friday – 23 November – more deals will launch across all Pick n Pay stores, including Hypermarkets. All stores will open at 06.59am on Black Friday, and these deals will run over a three-day period until 25 November 2018. Woolies shakes up Black Friday This year, in addition to offering deals of up to 50% off, Woolworths has decided to do Black Friday with a difference. By encouraging people to give while they save, Woolies is giving South Africans a way to help solve hunger in SA by providing 2.5 million meals to those that need it most this Christmas. To participate in Woolworths Give Back Friday, customers need to simply swipe their linked Woolworths or MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet card on any Give Back Friday transactions and Woolies will donate a percentage to their food security initiative through FoodForward SA. And if customers spend and swipe on Friday 23rd, Saturday 24th, and Sunday 25th November, Woolworths will give back double. Woolworths will also give customers up to 50% off selected fashion, beauty and home goods. Woolies opted for a week of promotions as opposed to only one day, starting on Monday 19th November and ending on “Cyber Monday” the 26th. Woolworths is also offering free delivery for online purchases of R475 or more. Customers will also get a Woolies special Black Friday experiences such as a Black Friday themed juice shot and sweets, and you can get mini makeovers and consultations. Shoprite  Shoprite began the Black Friday season by providing shopping vouchers worth R500 each to 100 lucky shoppers who entered their Black Friday competition. The low-cost grocer said they are bringing the "world’s biggest low price celebration to its customers – for one day only". If you’re looking for the biggest Black Friday deals, you’ve come to the right place. Shoprite will be offering up to 50% off on selected products. All deals are valid on 23 November 2018 while stocks last, the company said. PERSONAL FINANCE