Cape Town - The funeral service for criminal defence lawyer, Pete Mihalik, was held on Saturday at St Mary’s Cathedral in Cape Town.       Mihalik, 50, was shot in the head at point-blank range as he dropped his children off at their private school Reddam House in Green Point last week. There was a heavy police presence around the church and several security guards inside. Among the mourners seen paying their last respects were alleged gang boss Ralph Stanfield, who carried Mihalik's coffin from the hearse into the church, alleged underworld kingpin Colin Booysen and Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai Mihalik's 17-year-old daughter Cassidy delivered the eulogy.  Cassidy Mihalik says although her father had an arrogant demeanour underneath it he was a generous #Mihalik @WeekendArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/PNZw4jXvZs  — Luke Folb (@lukefolb) 
 November 10, 2018       Pete Mahlik’s coffin now being moved out of the church. @WeekendArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/rUANBkPjmM  — Luke Folb (@lukefolb) 
 November 10, 2018  Mihalik's eight-year-old son sustained a gunshot wound to his jaw. The advocate's teenage daughter, 17, who was in the back seat, was not injured. The gunman fired a shot through the driver's window of Mihalik's Mercedes-Benz. Neighbours reported hearing two gunshots. Three men have since been charged for Mihalik's murder. The State alleges that the murder was premeditated. In the charge sheet, the State alleges that the accused intentionally killed Mahalik by shooting him in the head with a firearm and that the offence "was committed by a person, group of persons or syndicate acting in the execution or furtherance of a common purpose or conspiracy". In the attempted murder charge, the State alleged that the accused intentionally attempted to kill Mihalik's son by "shooting him in the face/head with a firearm and thereby inflicting serious and potentially life-threatening injuries". The third and fourth charges relate to the accused's alleged possession of a 9 mm unlicensed firearm and ammunition. There has been much speculation about the murder with one newspaper reporting that a R1 million hit on Mihalik was ordered from a jail cell. Three years ago Mihalik, the go-to-lawyer for underworld figures, lost his wife, who was suffering from depression, to suicide. The case has been postponed to November 15. IOL and ANA