Glenn Schooling, vice-chairman of the Durbanville CPF, said the festive season alone brings its own challenges regarding vacant homes of people who go away on holiday. “Residents in the festive mood drop their guards and become negligent or do not alert their visitors of opportunistic crime trends. “In the more affluent part of Durbanville, we on a daily basis find economic crimes like the theft of motor vehicles, theft out of motor vehicles, house break-ins, and house robberies. “Armed robberies are also prevalent in the business areas. In Fisantekraal, assaults, robberies, domestic violence, petty thefts, and murders are prevalent. Our rural farm area includes many businesses, restaurants and event venues exposing them to crime if safety measures are insufficient for their particular risks,” said Schooling. He said there was an increase of events on the wine farms which brought challenges to policing. “We do not have a fully-resourced police station and have a dire need for additional office space. Under the circumstances, our members are doing their utmost best. Fisantekraal, where most serious and violent crimes take place, is policed out of a two-roomed satellite office with some support from Tygerberg SAPS Cluster based on crime threat analysis. “We strongly believe a new SAPS station needs to be urgently planned for within the Tygerberg Cluster and to serve the greater northern district development area including Fisantekraal, the huge Greenville development, Joostenbergvlakte, and the new Darwin Road development.” Ward 112 councillor Theresa Uys said she believes that with the festive season approaching residents need to be more vigilant. She said security companies, neighbourhood watches, CPF and SAPS would all work together. Uys said through the above partnerships the crime stats reflected an overall decrease in Durbanville. Schooling said the community had already gone to extreme lengths to form neighbourhood watches and put up LPR cameras (licence plate recognition) to help curb crime in the area. “The CPF has identified a need for the local businesses, NGOs, school safety portfolio members and faith-based fraternity to join hands with our partners in supporting our community safety plan interventions. Business could install CCTV covering both inside and the public space outside.” Elizabeth Maans, chairperson of Fisantekraal NHW, told the Weekend Argus her major concerns were house break-ins, drinking and driving along with alcohol abuse which may lead to domestic squabbles. Weekend Argus