Cape Town - The University of the Western Cape (UWC) community is grieving the death of three of its students. They died in separate incidents, off campus, and these are subject to police inquiries. "It is a profoundly sad time for the university. Its leadership has been in contact with the students’ families and we appeal to the media, and the public, to respect their privacy during this exceptionally difficult time," said UWC spokesperson, Gasant Abarder. "Furthermore the families have requested that the students’ identities and details about the deaths should not be divulged. "We are living in a time when there is enormous pressure on all of us, especially young people." The university said that it has a broad range of well-established student support initiatives and interventions. It has also put in place developmental programmes as part of a holistic student experience, which is one of the institutional goals since 2010. In addition to the psychological and counselling services there are first-year experience programmes, peer mentoring programmes, support systems at residences as well as various academic support initiatives. "This is a time for us as a university community to pause and reflect on the realities of the pressures and traumas that we face as well as look at ways in which our support systems can be enhanced," Abarder added. "Students who need professional and confidential counselling and psychological services for personal, social, familial and other concerns can contact the Centre for Student Support Services (CSSS) on csss@myuwc.ac.za or 021-959 2299." For additional support students are encouraged to contact the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG), with which the university has forged a longstanding partnership. In collaboration with CSSS, SADAG provides a 24-hour toll-free counselling helpline to all UWC students. Please call 0800 222 333. Staff members who may require support may contact the Staff Wellness Helpline at info@wellwork.co.za or 0800 205 333. The Human Resources Department also offers counselling services. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus