This is the sentiment of Babalwa Mentjies and Eric Salman, who devote their spare time teaching vocals and instruments to pupils at the Eluxolweni Primary School in Khayelitsha. The pupils, between the ages of 10 and 13, are known for brilliant and stimulating performances at weddings, youth programmes, funerals, memorial services and health campaigns in the townships. Mentjies, a project manager at the lnstitute for Music and lndigenous Arts Development (Imad), believes music plays a major role in developing children, particularly in their upbringing and also helps them maintain focus on their studies. “It’s a genuine way of life because this engagement keeps the kids away from negative thinking and wrongdoing.” The pupils are given lessons after class on how to play instruments such as the saxophone, trumpet, drums, tambourine and piano and how to sing. Mentjies said the project was started by two well-known jazz musicians, the late Ezra Ngcukana and George Werner, to provide the youth from the townships of Cape Town with a positive outlet for their talent and potential by teaching local teenagers their own culture, thus providing an alternative to drugs and negative activities. Later, in 2007, Imad was created to address the lack of music education in primary schools in Khayelitsha. “We are teaching kids music and vocals and the main purpose is to empower them with knowledge through music and to instil discipline and human values. “Children are able to express themselves in different ways and music is one of the ways to do so. They are intelligent and learn easily, but it’s not only music; we encourage them to stick with their books and value education.” Mentjies said: “* am certain that one day * will see these kids performing among the jazz greats in the world.” Nomelikhaya Potwana, grandparent of 11-year-old Sange Potwana, who plays piano in the group, said: “This was a brilliant idea to teach our kids music at school. It helps keep them away from teaming up with the wrong crowds and doing criminal acts. “As a parent * feel proud when * watch my grandson play the piano for the public. He is still young but he is already being applauded by young and old during performances. “This programme is keeping him busy and he stays focused on his school work. We hope one day they will have their own band and travel the world. “Music is one thing that keeps people at peace with the world and has no colour or race; it brings all nations together.” Khayelitsha resident Mac Ngondo believes that the teenagers are destined to go far if given a chance. “lf these kids could be exposed to all public spaces they could go far,” said Ngondo. “It feels good to watch young children this age performing live for young and old, it gives them confidence. “These are kids from poor backgrounds and they are here to showcase their talent. We wish to see them performing in big events, they have proved that in local ones. People love them.”