Despite the internal contestation and factions, Plato has had to douse fires over the weekend that he is being persuaded by some within the DA Cape Town caucus to appoint certain councillors to his mayoral committee. But on Tuesday, Plato is set to be inaugurated as mayor of the City without the support of trusted ally the ACDP. ACDP provincial leader Ferlon Christians said Plato was a mediocre candidate who would achieve little as mayor. “He failed to achieve anything during his seven-year term as MEC of Community Safety and he will be unable to unite a deeply divided DA caucus, which is the most vital first step towards stabilising and bringing credibility back to the council and the City.” The ACDP will be putting forward their own councillor Grant Haskin, who previously served as deputy mayor under Helen Zille’s mayorship. “Grant will lead the drive to re-establish the City as a world-class city that actually cares for all, respects and listens to all Capetonians and makes Cape Town an affordable city to live in,” the party said. “We believe the ACDP enjoys the respect of both DA factions in the City, the ANC and all other parties and anticipates significant support in this vote.” DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela, however, said the party bosses were fully behind Plato. “The council looks forward to Plato returning stability and unity to the DA caucus in the City of Cape Town and that the DA continues to keep making progress and building on the foundations laid by the DA through its manifesto.” Ahead of his inauguration, Plato said the caucus was at ease. He also denied an altercation with acting caucus leader JP Smith, who according to several rumours, wanted to impose councillors for mayco positions. Smith denied the allegations, so did Plato. “Since my arrival there has been no fighting. Maybe the councillors that I have not spoken too are still unhappy. “But that being said there is no truth in the JP allegations. He knows very well that I will make the decision as to who will be on the mayco. He knows that he has nothing to do with that process. That’s for me, not for JP, or anyone else to decide,” Plato said. Asked about the caucus unity, Plato said he was still working with all councillors. “My engagements with all the councillors is to listen to their concerns. We need to iron it out and ensure that caucus is united, so that we can move forward.” He said, pending the outcome of his meetings, a new mayco would be announced on Wednesday. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus