Johannesburg - Lerato Sengadi has claimed in an affidavit that late motswako rapper HHP, did in fact, pay R35 000 in lobola negotiations on the same day that the couple had their traditional ceremony. Sengadi said her relationship with the rapper, whose real name was Jabulani Tsambo, dated back 20 years but they only became romantically involved in 2009. She states the 2015 proposal lead to the lobola negotiations the following year, which were negotiated and paid on the same day as the celebration of the traditional wedding on February 28, something which came as a surprise to her. The lobola payment that they agreed upon was R45000. She also states that HHP’s father Robert Tsambo, whom she is filing an urgent interdict against, congratulated the couple and embraced her. She claims the terms and means of payment were recorded in a meeting held with the families which was signed by HHP’s uncle and father. There is also video footage of the celebrations. In a bid to claim her rightful position as the customary wife, Sengadi filed the interdict on October 30 that is set to be heard in the High Court in Joburg on Friday morning. If Sengadi’s interdict against HHP’s father Robert is granted, they will be restrained from proceeding with the funeral arrangements set for Saturday in the North West. The family will be obliged to release the remains, as well as the deceased’s possessions, to Sengadi. In the affidavit, Sengadi details the depression struggles the rapper went through and the demise of their relationship because of this. She alleges that the rapper chose not to take medication or enter into a rehabilitation facility and furthermore that his alleged addiction to cocaine and CAT exacerbated the situation. In her claims, she adds that her marriage to the deceased was, in fact, lawful and concluded on February 28 2016 and they proceeded to live together as man and wife. She stated that as HHP’s customary wife, she had the right to make the necessary funeral arrangements for his burial but was deprived of this right without cause. She also states that HHP did not want a funeral that would be a public affair or have any political affiliation. Her claim also insisted that HHP wanted a memorial for the industry and one that would be more solemn for his ailing mother to accept. Sengadi stated that she had also placed HHP on her medical aid in an attempt to get him to go to rehab. She alleges that HHP refused antidepressants because they stopped him from being creative. She described the drug addiction as a low point in their marriage. “When he was under the influence of cocaine and/or CAT, he acted irrationally and at times, aggressively.” She stated that in March this year the relationship went sour. The intention was for them to go into a civil marriage by February 28 but that did not happen due to busy schedules. She states that it was in March that she allegedly caught HHP in bed with another woman which lead to her leaving the matrimonial home to stay with a friend temporarily. Sengadi stated that it was during this fragile period that HHP spiralled ‘out of control’. By April, Sengadi alleges that an intervention for HHP was held with both families to try and convince him to go to rehab. However, the response from the Tsambo family, according to Sengadi, was not as expected. “Jabba’s family did not want to come to terms with the veracity of Jabba’s addiction.” Eventually, Sengadi agreed to go back home on condition that HHP goes to rehab. Sengadi states the relationship began to get better but his lack of urgency to find a rehabilitation centre did not impress her. She states that the death of Linda Prokid Mkhize was a wake-up call for the couple. She added to her statement that Robert tried to lock her out of the matrimonial home on the day of the rapper’s death and over the following days ensured that she was kept in the dark of all the information and possessions of the dead star. She also alleges that he claimed what she deemed as a customary marriage as merely negotiations. Her claims include that HHP wished to be buried in Johannesburg to be close to his son. Tsambo family spokesperson Nkululeko Ncana said the family had received the court application and that the family lawyers were dealing with the matter. “As law-abiding citizens, we have full confidence in our courts and believe that a reasonable outcome in the interest of justice will be arrived at.” Ncana added that the family would not be responding to the “outrageous and sensational claims” in the affidavit which “seek to impugn the good image and person of Jabba”. “At the appropriate time, the shameful untruths peddled with the aim soliciting sympathy from an unsuspecting public will be adequately addressed. It is deplorable and in bad taste that rather than mourning Jabba, matters of self-interest and grandstanding are elevated above all else, especially during this painful period.” Ncana said the Sengadi’s plight to prevent the family from giving the Harambe hitmaker a dignified send-off was “insensitive and atrocious at best”. “At worst, the action is tantamount to an act of violence on the memory and legacy of Jabba, who touched millions of lives through his music and personal interactions with his fans. It is a shame that our beloved Jabba is not around to dismiss off hand the lies that have been peddled about him. Everyone that ever crossed his path will attest to his loving nature.” In her final statement in the affidavit Sengadi states: “I am Jabba’s lawful customary wife, it is my right and privilege to see to it that his last wishes are respected and that his legacy continues. This cannot be done in circumstances where I am discredited as his wife. I cannot allow people who did not even feel for him or care for him to make decisions regarding Jabba’s final destination.” She also states that she is not in it for the money and respects the wishes of the rapper to bequeath his estate to his son Leano by way of a trust.  mpiletso.motumi@inl.co.za  The Star