Cape Town - The latest breaking political news from South Africa sees the launch of House of Cronies, a board game produced by the Both Worlds team that brought multi-award winning ZANEWS (www.zanews.co.za) to South African screens. This game of political influence, tactics and corruption lets ordinary South Africans pull some political strings as they vie to fill their cabinets, secure the most votes, and ultimately win the game. How to play: three to four players compete in the ultimate game of strategy to fill specific cabinet portfolios with cards that include some of South Africa’s most famous and infamous politicians and celebs (28 of them): The Guptas, Pravin, Malusi or Khanyi for finance minister; Fikile, Helen, Trevor or Hlaudi for communication minister; Thuli for Justice of course; and Cyril, Julius, Mmusi or Jacob for the top job in the country.  You can even pick a foreign ally to endorse you like Donald Trump, Angela Merkel or even Kim Kardashian. The game would not be realistic if players were not permitted to recruit politicians through influence or buy them with corruption. There are also numerous opportunities to sabotage opponents through cabinet reshuffles, Hawks investigations or even trips to the Saxonwold shebeen. The game tempts players to see how far they are willing to go to win. Some comedians including Angel Campey, Zapiro, Nik Rabinowitz, Yaaseen Barnes and Kagiso Mogkadi recently gave the game a try and the results were hilarious:   Elaborating on the thinking behind the game, Pierre Cassuto, creator of the game and Geek-in-Chief at Both Worlds said: “With Puppet Nation unfortunately now off-air for over a year, we wanted to create a way for our fans to continue talking about what’s happening prior to the elections in a more light-hearted way. Satire is great for tackling sensitive issues and breaking the tension - with this game, friends and families can resolve their political arguments on the board game battlefield." The game is available at Exclusive Books and on House of Cronies. luke.folb@inl.co.za Weekend Argus