Durban - Travellers were furious after having to sit aboard a plane for several hours without much food or water. It is believed that Mango flight JE352 was scheduled to fly from Cape Town to Durban but after two landing attempts, the plane was rerouted to Johannesburg. The plane could not land in Durban due to bad weather conditions. Passengers aboard Mango flight JE352, took to social media to complain of having to sit in the plane for at least seven hours on Tuesday, without much food or water. The flight, which left Cape Town at 5:30pm was meant to land at the King Shaka International Airport however according to passenger, Claudia Evelyn Bostock, the plane could not land in Durban because of the weather and the flight was re-directed to OR International Airport.     "What was already an extremely traumatic flight for everyone, we have been subjected to inhumane treatment for hours since landing in Johannesburg. We were given 330mls of water in 4 hours with no option to purchase food or beverages and threathened with no refund on flights if we left the plane," Bostock said in a lengthy Facebook post. She also said there was no toilet paper. Another passenger claimed that the plane had a damaged wing. "I sat on board with no water, no toilet, no communication, nothing from head office and an eventual flight to Durban after being stuck inside an airplane for eight hours," she said. Meanwhile, passengers also complained that their luggage was taken off the plane and left on the tarmac. Mango apparently contacted a few of the passengers and offered them a R400 voucher, which added to the passengers' frustration. A passenger who spoke on the basis of anonymity said the way in which passengers worked together despite the circumstances, is something that will stick in her mind. "We are all hungry and cabin staff did not give us food. Eventually, when passengers began to loot the food trolley, we found sandwiches and wraps. We shared that amongst ourselves. The camaraderie was just amazing as people allowed others to charge their cellphones and just came together," she said. She said Mango had contacted her and asked her for her details. "I sent them my contact details and then got back an automated response. I have not heard from them still. This is unacceptable," she said. Passengers were eventually allowed to disembark the plane and were put on another plane which landed in Durban just after 4am on Wednesday morning. Airports Company SA spokesperson, Colin Naidoo, said; "During bad weather it is the pilots and airline decision to either fly back to the airport of departure or to the closest airport. That is done due to the safety of the passengers and the aircraft. It must also be established where the bad weather was being experienced which would have allowed the pilot to make that decision. It is also the responsibility of the airline concerned to ensure that those affected passengers are rerouted to their final destination." Mango Airlines had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publish. Daily News