Among concerns cited in an email to the donors in 2015 was that “friendships at school often result in play dates, which can also become tricky because of the distance in travel, and result in a child feeling isolated and excluded”. But despite concerns raised, the school said the donors could apply for the girl, referred to as Linah. Dick and Paula How from the US approached the school saying they wished to provide all of the girl’s education costs. “We wish to help one small child to have a chance in the world,” the couple said. In response, admissions officer and secretary to the headmistress Gill Cook said: “Thank you for considering RGJS. We have had pupils who have benefited from sponsorship and share the following concerns: "There is often a lack of real support at home on many levels - management of homework, contracting reliable transport to and from school and participation in events after school hours.” But on Tuesday, Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the girl’s age (3) had actually played a major role. “The matter regarding the financing of the pupil by the donor is not a prerequisite for immediate admission. If Linah had applied, then her application would be considered. "If she was then accepted, the financing of her school fees would be considered in terms of the donors’ contribution.” In the same year, the school reportedly received a similar enquiry from another donor, Hammond said, and the same advice was given. The donor kept in contact, submitted application documentation this year and the child was accepted for admission for next year. Former SGB member and associate professor at Stellenbosch University Nuraan Davids said when they questioned the school about its admissions practices, they were told: “They look at old girls, they look at race, they look at (the parents’) profession (to assess ability to pay school fees). "Suggestions to set up a scholarship for underprivileged girls were shut down by school management. Cape Times