Cape Town - As the Two Oceans Aquarium turns 23 on Tuesday, November 13, it's introduced a "Free on your Birthday" initiative. If it's your birthday, you can visit the aquarium for free on your special day, or up to six days later. Visitors have to present a valid identification document to qualify. “To celebrate the Aquarium’s birthday this year, we wanted to do something special for South Africans in particular. We have enjoyed tremendous support from locals throughout our 23 years of existence, so this is our way of saying ‘thank you’. We hope the Two Oceans Aquarium birthday special will result in even more people, from all walks of life, being able to draw inspiration from South Africa’s awesome underwater world,” Two Oceans Aquarium marketing manager Ingrid Sinclair said. Since its opening in 1995, the Two Oceans Aquarium has welcomed millions of visitors. Young and old have marvelled at the wonders of this incredible underwater world. With the new birthday initiative, those celebrating their birthday can make the day extra special by visiting the Aquarium for free, either on the day, or up to six days after. A valid form of identification will have to be presented at the Aquarium’s ticket office in order for the recipient to qualify. Over the past 23 years, the Aquarium has achieved and celebrated some significant milestones. In 2016 the I&J Ocean Exhibit, the first large-scale addition in 21 years, opened to the public together with the mesmerising Jelly Gallery. In December 2017, the Aquarium released Yoshi, a loggerhead turtle that had enthralled visitors for 20 years. Yoshi’s journey has been followed with great interest over the last year as she continues with her travels up (and down) the African west coast. The Aquarium has also rehabilitated and released over 400 turtles through its turtle rescue, rehabilitation and release programme since 2009. The Aquarium has also rescued and released seals and sunfish, and tagged and released a number of ragged-tooth sharks. Over a million school children have participated in experiential programmes in the Aquarium’s Environmental Education Centre and through its three outreach programmes. The Aquarium has held Diamond status for two years running – this is the highest certification possible in the Heritage Environmental Rating Programme. Initiatives such as the installation of solar panels and rainwater tanks to reduce energy and water consumption as well as a drive to reduce waste to landfill are some of the activities undertaken to reduce the Aquarium’s impact on the environment. To learn more about the Two Oceans Aquarium, visit www.aquarium.co.za Find out about the animals and exhibits that the Aquarium houses as well as the special experiences, like diving, Penguin, as well as Ocean Experiences that are on offer. For teachers, the Environmental Education Centre offers specialised courses, which are curriculum-based, for learners and students. The Aquarium also provides a spectacular backdrop for end of year functions and parties. (For full terms and conditions of the “Free on your Birthday” special, click here) @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus