The young woman, whose first name is never given in court papers, shot herself one morning when she was alone at home with Barend. She’d threatened suicide a few times before, but something else had happened during her final hours. A report showed the child had experienced physical trauma in addition to the emotional horror of witnessing his mother unravelling before she raised the gun to her head and pulled the trigger. The toddler was found with blue strangulation marks on his neck, but there was no timeline to explain the circumstances under which that injury had happened. No one could say whether the act was a grotesque bid at “protecting” a child from some imagined, or intended ordeal, or whether the torture of the little boy had led to her suicide. Either way, the first time Barend Strydom found out that his mother had killed herself, and had not died accidentally, was after he was taken into custody on November 15, 1988. Thirty years ago today, Strydom massacred seven black people at Strijdom Square in the centre of Pretoria and injured more than a dozen others. A week earlier, he had killed a black woman in an informal settlement in De Deur, outside Johannesburg, to test his resolve. Strydom was smiling when he was finally handcuffed after a savagely racist spree which left the prints of his combat boots in pools of blood on the piazza in front of the State Theatre and on five city blocks around it. Justice Louis Harms, who sentenced the white supremacist to the hangman’s noose in May 1989, said Strydom - who was wearing camouflage and a belt custom engraved with the words “Wit Wolf” - was “worse than other terrorists”. “He was prepared to shoot people while smiling at them, and looking them in the eye, while the ordinary terrorist conventionally sets a bomb and doesn’t come into direct confrontation with the victim,” he said. Justice Harms, who had given the death sentence to a number of other apartheid-era killers, was shocked. He said Strydom had shown a lack of compassion and a cold-bloodedness he had never encountered or even heard of before. He referred to how Strydom had walked up to a bus parked on the corner of Church and Prinsloo streets which was transporting patients accompanied by their nurses to the Hendrik Verwoerd public hospital, and shot 33-year-old Mashadi Catherine Mokwena through an open window. He fired a single bullet from his 9mm Vektor Beretta pistol at her chest and she died on the spot. He spoke about how Strydom had strolled up to 88-year-old Tsatsawana Selina Nguna, who was seated on a pavement near the corner of Proes and Prinsloo streets selling sweets and trinkets to pedestrians, and shot her twice - once in her torso and once in her chest. Horrified at how Strydom could barely contain his laughter as he aimed his weapon at people who were clearly disbelieving of what was about to happen to them, he recalled the killer’s “test run” at Wheeler’s Farm, De Deur, six days earlier, when he had murdered 25-year-old Martha Mosekili by shooting her twice in the chest. Harms was appalled by Strydom’s overt “self-satisfaction” which he said was a particularly chilling aspect of the killer’s deliberate taunting of black South Africans throughout. The judge reminded the court that the mass murderer had said he would like to kill more black people, and would do so if he was a free man. His stated intention was to trigger a race war. Strydom was the same age as his mother at the time she took her life, when he was questioned by the Security Police in late 1987 after an incriminating photograph of him at an accident scene was reported. The image was, in fact, far more than “incriminating”. A flash had captured the saturated colours of evil, showing Strydom - then a police officer, in uniform - with a knife in one hand and the decapitated head of a black motorist who had died in the accident, in the other. It’s impossible to say whether his mother’s suicide, and whatever happened before she took her life, had any bearing on the cruelty which developed within Strydom. Several psychological assessments before he went to trial did not deem that to be so, but those assessments and a psychiatric examination done after he was suspended from the police force following the heinous photograph, noted that Strydom’s father, Nic, had had a massive influence on his life. This was to the point, believed the medical examiners, that Strydom was an exact copy of Nic, a supremacist and zealot of the right-wing Dutch Reformed Church. The family was living in Weenen, KwaZulu-Natal - the site of the 1838 Voortrekker massacre which preceded the Battle of Blood River or iMpi yaseNcome - when Strydom’s mother shot herself. Strydom had minor physical challenges as an infant. He was born with a cleft palate, which was repaired in an operation and, at a few months old, lost consciousness for a couple of hours in an event his father described as “a temporary trance”. The baby was kept in hospital for a couple of weeks under observation, but no such “trance” occurred again. Raised in part by his grandmother in Heidelberg, and then joining a new family when Nic Strydom married nurse and mother-of-three Daphne Raubenheimer, Barend Strydom shared the traits of many other mass killers around the world. He was a loner and an average individual of no particular success who hadn’t had romantic relationships, and whose ideations then turned into violent obsessions. In Strydom’s case, those obsessions were permitted in apartheid South Africa where race hate was nurtured and encouraged in white children, especially Afrikaans-speaking white children. He came to represent the most repulsive but also the inevitable and tragic outcome of apartheid - a system which described black people as so inferior in law and society that Strydom didn’t even regard them as human. When he fired bullets into their bodies, it was as if they were vermin. He saw nothing wrong in it whatsoever: it was natural for a Boer; natural for an anti-Communist; natural for a Christian. He felt no remorse, and was absolutely correct when he predicted that he would neither die by hanging nor spend his life in prison. Strydom was packing 300 9mm bullets and two magazines when he parked his car on the corner of Pretorius and Prinsloo streets 30 years ago. It took him around 15 minutes to destroy many lives - not only by killing people, but by disabling others, by removing breadwinners, and by profoundly destabilising individuals and families, numbers of whom are likely to have untreated Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or unresolved physical and emotional pain. Yet the State saw fit to give him amnesty and Strydom - who showed no remorse - was released back into society along with more than 100 others in 1992. Today, he lives quietly in Hartbeespoort outside Pretoria, where he works as an artisan and has raised a family with his wife, Karin, who he married when he was briefly a prisoner. A white supremacist still, Strydom is cited as one of the predominant martyrs of the Boer people and an heroic inspiration for their struggle for a Third Republic. The threat remains, and if the ghost of that tormented young woman who gave birth to one of the world’s most evil men has haunted him, it would be scant justice. Pretoria News