Police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk said they were investigating the circumstances that led to the death of the 59-year-old at Bunker Road in Lakeside. “A murder and house robbery case was registered for investigation. The deceased had succumbed to various wounds inflicted on his upper back. Police are still conducting an investigation, crime scene experts are combing the scene for clues.” Van Wyk said the suspects were unknown at this stage. Johannes had been a hospitality host through popular online hospitality service Airbnb for the past few years. The guesthouse listing also appeared on booking.com. It is alleged the suspects are two guests who had been evicted for bad behaviour. According to a source, the suspects came back, broke into the house and killed him. According to police, the suspects gained entry to the residence by forcing a window open. At this point, a computer monitor and two televisions are the only items that have been confirmed to be stolen. It is unclear what else was taken. His brother, Edward Johannes, told the Cape Times on Sunday that the day before his death he had hosted guests who got “out of hand” but said that the family was unsure of the details of the attack. “My brother’s guest house was broken into in the early hours of Saturday morning. “What transpired, we are not sure, but he was attacked and killed. There were other people in the house at the time, a foreign couple. "When I got to the scene, they were already being questioned as part of police investigations. Police couldn’t give us any details,” he said. The family would have confirmation of the cause of death today after an autopsy was conducted, he added. Edward said: “He was always there for people. He was a pillar of strength for his family and community. He was a kind, gentle human being. "Not just for me, but he was my go-to guy. He was there for everyone. He was an exceptional human being.” Police have appealed to the public or anyone with information to contact investigating officer Warrant Officer E Ganz at 082 522 1809. Cape Times