What's that saying? Don't get mad, get even... A heartbroken Australian bride outed her cheating fiancée in the worst way possible, on what was supposed to be their wedding day. * Casey was about to marry the man of her dreams when she received a gutwrenching text. “This was supposed to be the happiest day of my life. Instead, I knew it was the end of my dream relationship and everyone was going to witness it,” she told Whimn. According to Yahoo Lifestyle, Casey and her partner had been together for six years, but while celebrating with her bridesmaids on her last night as a single, she got a text that would change the course of her future. It read:  "‘I wouldn’t marry him. Will you?" Accompanying the text was screenshots of conversations between Casey’s husband-to-be and a mystery woman, dating months back and including included recent ones. However, instead of calling off the wedding, she put her plan into action. “I was going to go ahead with the wedding as expected, and ‘out’ him in front of our friends and family,” she explained. When the time came for saying their vows, she announced there would be "no wedding today" “It seems * Alex is not who I thought he was,” she told everyone, before she started reading out every single message he had sent to the woman. One text said: "Your body is f***ing incredible. And s** do you know how to use it. I wish my GF had half the skills you do." Casey said Alex left the church a shamed man after she outed him. Last month a woman who was caught cheating when her husband stumbled across an image of a woman stroking the hair of a man with his head in her lap made headlines. The image had been captured by the Google cameras as they surveyed the area several years before, but the woman and her outfit – white top, jeans and heels – looked a little familiar. It rapidly dawned on the man that the clothes were identical to those worn by his wife on many occasions. And then, looking closer still, he discovered that the woman sitting on a bench was indeed his wife – clearly enjoying the company of another man. The Peruvian couple are now divorced after the husband confronted her with the evidence of her infidelity, and she admitted to having had an affair. Moral of the story? In the tech age we live in today, chances are there'll be a record of infidelity somewhere.