Shaheed Silwana is an imam and built the Masjid Allahu Akbar in Ntlazane Road in 2010. He said detectives had not spoken to a crucial witness who could shed light on what happened on the night his youngest son was killed. Speaking at the graveside in Khayelitsha Cemetery yesterday, Silwana said he had been to the Harare police station earlier in the day to get feedback on the investigation. “I am very disappointed. When I went to see the docket, I found it is empty. There had been no further investigation,” Silwana said. He said the provincial police had spoken to him, but there had been no further interaction with the detective at Harare SAPS who is handling the case. “When I called him today, his phone was off,” Silwana said. Yusuf Silwana, a married father of three, was shot multiple times while working on a car at the mosque premises on Tuesday. Silwana believes the criminals wanted to steal the car, but Yusuf fought back. He was buried on Wednesday . Another man who was with him was shot in the head and stomach, and is in a critical condition in Tygerberg Hospital. Yesterday, the family went to the cemetery to clean the grave and read the Qur’an. Silwana broke down, while explaining the significance of the visit. He was comforted by his wife Gadija, who had their three-year-old granddaughter strapped on her back. Wiping away tears, Silwana said: “When I see my son lying here, I only ask that if my son is returned to Him (Allah), that he must open the door for him.” He described his son as his “everything” and said he was shot for no reason. Yusuf worked with his father repairing cars in Khayelitsha. No one has been arrested in connection with the shooting. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said a case of murder and attempted murder was being investigated. According to SAPS, the shooting happened at around 7pm. The men were found with gunshot wounds, one died at the scene, while the other was taken to hospital. No one has been arrested. The Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) has condemned the attack. Spokesperson Mishka Daries said they had heard that four men wanted to rob Silwana. “One of the men pulled out a gun and shot at point-blank range,” she said. They called on the police to make arrests and said people visit places of worship to find refuge. The Cape SA Jewish Board of Deputies also condemned the attack at the mosque. Director Stuart Diamond said attacks on places of worship were shocking. “Houses of worship must be regarded as sanctuaries where worshippers can gather without fear of violence and pray in a space that holds no place for hate,” he said. karen.pretorius@inl.co.za Weekend Argus