Lloyd Simbarashe, a 42-year-old Zimbabwean national, stands accused of murdering his then girlfriend, Nikita Lewis, by stabbing her 18 times in full view of shocked onlookers inside the Pick and Save Superette in Manenberg on October 9, 2015. He also allegedly threw acid in her face before the murder and hounded her for days before the crime. Simbarashe’s defence has been that he has no memory of the murder, but a clinical psychologist at Valkenberg hospital, Dr Nyameka Dyakalashe, testified earlier the presence of “perceptual disturbances alone”, is not enough to diagnose a mental disorder like psychosis as claimed by Simbarashe. He also further claims he did not know that a bottle in his car contained acid when he threw the contents of it in Lewis’s face. But Dyakalashe disagreed with him after she and a panel at Valkenberg assessed him for one month. State prosecutor Mbulelo Koti today painted a picture of a man who very much wanted to control the deceased and abused her when he could not have his way. It is the State’s submission that Simbarashe threw acid in the face of Lewis on August 19, 2015 after they had an argument over food. According to a statement by the deceased, Simbarashe had wanted her to cook and she wanted him to get takeaways. An argument ensued and he threw acid in her face which he had kept in a bottle in the car. According to the statement, Simbarashe speeded off and only two days later contacted the deceased’s mother, Bonita Lewis, to enquire about the well-being of his “girlfriend”. In his evidence in chief, Simbarashe told the court that he got rid of the acid bottle because he was clearing the rubbish from the car. The State asked the court to reject Simbarashe’s version of events saying testimony could “not be reasonably true”. This week the court heard that Lewis had ended the “volatile” relationship with Simbarashe but he had refused to accept it. According to a statement by the deceased, Simbarashe also did not assist her when she started screaming that her face was burning after he allegedly threw the acid in her face. Koti, said Simbarashe had fabricated the entire acid attack event to suit his defence. Simbarashe, in his evidence in chief, told the court he is a “sick” man and that he “just wants to go to jail”. He also told the court that he had been under medication for “a mentally-ill person” and the medication caused his memory loss. The deceased’s mother, Bonita Lewis, rejected Simbarashe’s claims that the couple had lived together in Du Noon and that they were not the happy couple he had made them out to be. Judgement is expected next week.