Cash-strapped consumers face steep increases of up to 10% in medical scheme premiums coming into effect on January1. While the increased premiums have been largely attributed to the increase in VAT and in medical treatment costs, another factor is the high cost of keeping adult dependants on your scheme. This week, the country’s largest restricted scheme, the Government Employees Medical Scheme, announced a 7.1% increase in premiums next year. And for Nomsa Sedibeng, who has her teenage daughter and adult mother as dependants, both cost more than she does as the main member. “My daughter is a 19-year-old student while my 67-year-old mother is a pensioner and they cost me around R2100 each as dependents while I’m just under R2000,” she said. “I can’t exclude either of them from my medical aid but it’s getting to a point where I cannot afford it. My premiums cost more than my bond repayments.” Head of healthcare consulting at Grant Thornton Capital, Jill Larkan, said it was cheaper to register healthy adult dependants on their own schemes rather than keeping them in a bundle in one scheme. “Usually, adult dependants don’t need to go on their parents’ medical aid, they can go on their own. And, because they are young and healthy and earn very low salaries or are students, you can put them on schemes that offer lesser benefits, or a beginner entry-level plan. “They are much cheaper because of the cross-subsidisation, because they earn less and the premiums are much lower,” she said. “But if you have an adult dependant like a granny or parent, the only way you can manage that is if you put them on a network plan with you.” Larkan said even though some medical aids covered adults between the ages of 21 and 27 who were still students as child dependants, those costs could still be expensive. “Say you are on a classic comprehensive plan, the premium of a child dependant is as high, if not higher, than adding the child on their own on an entry level-network plan. “But if you are adding an adult dependant like your mom, you find that you can manipulate the cost amount if you do your homework with the numbers and work with a professional adviser. Otherwise, you end up putting them on the same plan as yourself and may not necessarily need those benefits for them. “The issue is that most consumers don’t look at the bottom-line cost of it all, they just want to keep the same level of benefits, and if they carry on with that they must accept the increased premium. “Generally, you will find if you review your benefits that you have more cover than you need and can downgrade, but some clients use a lot more benefits than others. “It is then important that consumers spend more time with their consultants, especially now when there are only a couple of weeks left: if a change needs to be made, now is the time.” This week, the merger between Spectramed and Resolution Health Medical Scheme to make Health Squared Medical Scheme was approved. The scheme is expected to come into effect by January 1 and has 11 benefit options for members. tshego.lepule@inl.co.za Weekend Argus