Cape Town - The State has started closing arguments in the Lloyd Simbarashe murder trial. The 42-year-old Zimbabwean national stands accused of murdering his then-girlfriend, Nikita Lewis, by stabbing her 18 times in full view of shocked onlookers inside the Pick and Save Superette in Manenberg on October 9, 2015. A clinical psychologist at Valkenberg hospital, Dr Nyameka Dyakalashe,  testified earlier in the trial that the presence of “perceptual disturbances alone”, is not enough to diagnose a mental disorder like psychosis as claimed by Simbarashe. Simbarashe claims he has no memory of the alleged attack but Dyakalashe disagreed with him after she and a panel at Valkenberg assessed him for one month. State prosecutor, Mbulelo Koti on Tuesday painted a picture of a man who very much wanted to control the deceased and abused her when he could not have his way. Nikita had apparently left the accused shortly after being released from Groote Schuur Hospital where she received treatment after being attacked with acid. The couple were apart for a short period before reconciling. It is the state’s submission that Simbarashe threw acid in the face of Lewis on August 19, 2015, after they had an argument over food. According to a statement by the deceased, Simbarashe had wanted her to cook and she wanted him to get takeaways. An argument ensued and he threw acid in her face which he had kept in a bottle in the car. According to the statement, Simbarashe sped off and only two days later contacted the deceased’s mother, Bonita Lewis, to inquire about the well-being of his “girlfriend”. In his evidence in chief, Simbarashe told the court that he got rid of the acid bottle because he was clearing the rubbish in the car. He had also threatened Lewis on a previous occasion that he himself would drink acid if she ever left him. The state asked the court to reject Simbarashe’s version of events saying they could not be reasonably true. The matter continues on Wednesday. Weekend Argus