Cape Classics, which imports South African and French wine to America, was named 2018 Wine Star Award winner for “Importer of the Year”, by Wine Enthusiast Magazine. President and chief operating officer Andre Shearer said the accolade came after “25 years of hard work”. Shearer was in the country last week and told of how Cape Classics had been founded as a business venture when sanctions were lifted in the early 1990s. Along with his brother, Gary, they set off for America “to seek opportunity”, but found a market where “nobody understood or cared about South African wines”. His brother has since left the company, but Shearer remembers the early days when the South African brand was non-existent, making it a tough sell in the American market. “The US consumer don’t know the brand. Our wine is sold in a vacuum. New Zealand sells six times more than us,” he said. Cape Classics has focused on working with what Shearer calls “principled, holistic, organic” independent family producers. “These were previously un-exported family wineries,” he said. Fast forward 25 years and the Cape Classics seal is stamped on 25% of all South African wine available in America and is the largest player in the South African wine import business. The company expanded its portfolio in 2013, to include wines from France. It also produces its own wines under the Indaba, Jam Jar and Braai labels which are available in America, Canada, the UK and Sri Lanka. It is sales from Indaba Wines which enable Cape Classics to invest in education through its Indaba Foundation, based in Lynedoch in the Winelands. The non-profit organisation provides early childhood Montessori teacher training, learning materials and educational infrastructure to at-risk children in the Cape Winelands. Shearer said he wanted the non-profit to be “an engine of change in society” and help eradicate foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Seventy children receive a Montessori education in Lynedoch, some of whom have FAS. “You can’t just not do something about it,” he said. Shearer paid tribute to the Cape Classics staff, customers and the wine producers for being part of the journey. karen.pretorius@inl.co.za Weekend Argus