Nonceba Rebecca Mxenga, 92, was picked up from her informal dwelling in Blikkiesdorp where she had been living since 2013. She was then driven to her new home where she took her first steps into the house, with utmost joy. As she sat down on her single-seater couch she looked around and said: “Ah oh, this is a nice house,” with a smile on her face. Her grandchild, Entle Mxenge, will move in to help look after her, as well as her brother. Entle’s father, Theodore, will continue living in an informal dwelling that once housed seven of them, with his wife and other children. “My mother was stressed when it got violent here. Her health got bad; we thought she had a stroke. I am happy for her. She can rest now. Even if she dies, I now know her soul will rest in peace.” Nomfundisa Zele, 64, has been bed-ridden for the last eight years as a result of polio. She had been waiting for a house since 1992 and lived in Langa and Nyanga and was moved to Blikkiesdorp with the promise of a home. Instead, she found herself living in an informal dwelling. Tears of joy filled Zele’s eyes she sat on her bed after she had been transported by emergency services and carried into her new home. The two-bedroom house will be occupied by five children, a cousin and her daughter Boniswa. Boniswa said getting the house has changed their lives. A community leader, Jerome Daniels, told the Weekend Argus their aim is to help the old and disabled in the community of Blikkiesdorp. “They must take priority. A lot of them are looking after small kids in that environment. We are looking at helping around 10 more people who are blind, deaf or disabled and elderly (get) out of Blikkies,” said Daniels. The duo received new homes through the City’s Breaking New Ground (BNG) housing project in Delft. During the coming months, qualifying beneficiaries will receive their own homes as part of the City’s commitment to provide 2400 BNG houses in the area. Executive mayor Dan Plato and councillor Malusi Booi, mayco member for Area Central, visited the grandmothers. The Roosendal project, which formed part of the first phase of development, was completed in 2016 and provided 288 beneficiaries with housing opportunities. The remaining phase, which is under construction, will provide 2112 housing opportunities. A total of 108 houses have been handed over in this phase.