The Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association plans legal action against the developer over the traumatising and injuring of those protesting against the company. Secretary of the association Jacky Poking yesterday said residents had sustained injuries, including bruised ankles and respiratory problems from gas inhalation. She said the residents had been at odds with Blok since a meeting last year about plans to build apartments on Lion Street. “Blok has taken out an interdict stating that we are violent. Our lawyers are working on legal action against them for traumatising our community. They never apologised for what they have put us through. They have never acted in good faith,” said Poking. Mishkah Samie, of the civic association, said: “Because of the way the police handled people and disrespected our elderly, a lot of people were injured. They were pushed and shoved. We can’t keep track of the numbers. A woman came to me last night because she could hardly get up the stairs because her back was sore. Police pushed her. “There were a lot of elderly people at the protest. The police used force. People have been coming forward to tell us of their injuries. It is not fair that our elderly must endure this to save our homes.” Another resident said: “There were about 15 people injured. They had spray in their eyes (from a gas grenade) and injuries to their legs and arms from being pushed and dragged by the police.” Blok has applied for two interdicts against residents to prevent them from interfering with its construction site. Blok’s first interdict was withdrawn after the developer met residents. It then applied for a second interdict this month, which the residents plan to oppose at the Western Cape High Court on December 6. Poking said the civic association was also fighting to have the Lion Street property sale to Blok declared illegal. She said the land Blok was building on should have been used by the City of Cape Town to build social housing for local residents. “We are questioning the sale and need information about it from the city. The city should not have allowed the sale of the land,” said Poking. Bo-Kaap ward councillor Brandon Golding yesterday said the property’s previous owner, St Monica’s Trust which is linked to the Anglican Church, sold the land after it had applied to the city to have an original condition reversed. The city had originally sold the land to St Monica’s at a reduced price on condition that it could be used for public benefit. A maternity home was to have been built and the adjacent land used for a vegetable garden. St Monica’s Trust applied to the city to have this clause removed, which it did, enabling the sale for other use. St Monica’s had to pay the city additional funds to have this clause removed to enable the sale. Poking said the city should not have done this and instead should have used the land to benefit Bo-Kaap residents who face a shortage of homes. “We are going to protest against this every day from 5pm to 6pm. Blok have asked another crane to come in and we will protest against that too,” she added. When residents protested against Blok’s crane delivery on Tuesday they were met with police force, stun grenades and arrest. Five residents were arrested, but released later that day without charge. Golding said he wanted to “facilitate the dialogue” between Blok and the civic association. Blok said it was “disappointed and concerned by the violence”. “A small self-interested group has unlawfully interfered with previous deliveries and there is currently an interdict in place to prevent any further interference by this group,” it said. “The decision was made to postpone the delivery (of the crane) in order to secure the safety of the staff and property.” One of Bo-Kaap’s oldest residents, Abdeyah da Costa, 92, has been protesting against Blok. She attends public meetings in the area and has gained popularity on social media after she read a poem at a protest. “We went early to protest. There wknews@inl.co.za Weekend Argus