Cape Town - The Animal Welfare of South Africa is bracing themselves for an influx of stray animals. This comes after their efforts to educate and mitigate the negative effects of Guy Fawkes fell on deaf ears. “We were up until well past 1 am on Tuesday morning fielding calls from concerned members of the public, dealing with a host of animal-related enquiries and several injured animals. We are still dealing with the aftermath of what can best be described as a night of unruly chaos,” said Allan Perrins resource development and communications officer for The Animal Welfare of South Africa. On Monday night they had three injured dogs as a result of the noise. One in Mitchells Plain where an adult female pitbull who when trying to escape (the neighbours were allegedly letting of crackers) almost impaled herself on the owner's boundary fence resulting in a serious laceration to her hind leg. “She will be left permanently scarred and may never recover fully. She will probably always walk with a limp or convoluted gait.” Another incident occurred in Athlone where an adult female dog and her son escaped their otherwise secure property and when they returned home to their worried owners they both had serious injuries. “The female is as a consequence likely to lose her right eye. The other dog has a degloved (deep laceration) bottom jaw. The owners strongly suspect that they were deliberately targeted by local Guy Fawkes hooligans.” “Unless law and order can be maintained the use of fireworks should be summarily banned. Finished and Klaar. They are very dangerous, cause umpteen unnecessary injuries to people as well as pets, are a total waste of money and it would appear as though those who choose to celebrate this senseless event get up to all sorts of additional mischief using Guy Fawkes as a convenient ruse to get up to no good. "They are all someone’s beloved pets. Before Guy Fawkes, they were healthy and had a zest for life. Today they are left scarred emotionally and physically and we as rational law abiding citizens have to ask why.’’ Weekend Argus