The entire Karoo region has been severely affected by the drought as dams and other sources of water evaporate. Beaufort West’s main source of water, the Gamka Dam, has been dry for close to two years. Beaufort West Mayor Noel Constable said the town had become dependent on boreholes and a water reclamation plant, but stated that both options were under severe pressure. Of the town’s 39 boreholes serving the town’s 34 000 residents, only 27 are operational. “The reality is that our boreholes and water treatment plants are really struggling. The treatment plant is not coping. We asked people to use less water and if people are adhering to that, it means there is less water to be cleaned and turned into drinkable water, so it has turned into a catch 22 situation. The plant is designed to produce 21.1 mega litres, but at this rate, it is only producing one mega litre,” he said. “All this is happening while it gets hotter by the day, average temperatures here are between 35 to 37 degrees.” Constable said the town’s businesses and agricultural sector were taking strain. Low fodder production for ostrich and cattle in the area has led to increased livestock deaths. “The agricultural sector has been under severe constraints for the last year and we can no longer supply them, they rely on donations,” said Constable. “We have been conducting water shedding and we have tried not to shut down industrial areas because of the trucks and all the vehicles that come through the town, but we are going to have to re-evaluate that situation in the coming weeks as we cannot deal with that demand either.” Constable said two to three boreholes were already under pressure, which means the town could be down to 24. “Our boreholes cannot hold out for forever. We need a plan to get water in the Gamka Dam.” The main reservoir is at around 35% and it needs to be at 50%. “We want to urge people to donate water to us, even if it is non-potable water. We can have it treated and turned into drinkable water.” The town recently received four truckloads of donated non-potable water from Gift of the Givers, which went to the treatment plant and another 25 000 litres from a Joburg-based organisation, Ashraful Uloom, which added to the town’s stockpile for distributions to communities. Residents said they had become completely dependent on the two five litre bottles the municipality provides to households. “The situation is not good at all, we have to ration and prioritise what we can use, what little water we get for in our homes, with cooking, drinking and baths coming first,” said Phamaka Dabula. @WeekendArgus  wknews@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus