Both harboured burning ambitions to become president of their respective countries. One succeeded while the other, I’m sure, will never stop trying. Then there was their much-publicised penchant for extra-marital affairs, with the former US president preferring to seduce women with gifts of diamonds (“a girl’s best friend”?) while our local hero settled for naughty video clips. But perhaps more importantly, both will probably go down in history as true paragons of patriotism. Remember Kennedy’s inaugural address in 1961 when he exhorted the American people, “Ask not what your country can do for you - ask what you can do for your country”? Well, these historic words echoed so loudly in Gigaba’s mind, he took them to heart and decided to fall on his sword as a Cabinet minister this week - all for the sake of his country. So selfless were his motives, he was prepared to sacrifice his coveted executive position and all the attractive perks that go with it just to relieve President Cyril Ramaphosa of “undue pressure and allow him to focus on improving the lives of the people and to do the best he can to serve the country and save it from this economic meltdown”. Such awesome altruism is so hard to find in the cut-throat world of politics these days. I notice some political analysts are already predicting it will be difficult for Gigaba to make a comeback, given his waning support base in the ANC and the litany of public controversies haunting his career. Others have, however, been a little more generous, saying he’s still a young buck and has age on his side. Besides, the ANC has historically been quite forgiving when its representatives have misbehaved or even broken the law in the past. My guess is that Gigaba won’t be out on the street, as it were. Who knows? He could land a plum position as South Africa’s ambassador at large in Dubai soon. But even if the formal sector gives him the cold shoulder, the informal economy is bristling with opportunities for a man of his skills, eloquence and experience. As a dapper dresser with a penchant for three-piece bespoke suits, he’d be much sought-after as a model on the fashion ramp. His dazzling smile could make him a natural for toothpaste ads while his gift for double-talk could earn him a job as a political speech writer. As a former head of Home Affairs, he could even make a packet advising people on shortcuts towards securing a passport or even a naturalisation certificate. And if all else fails, his credentials as a home videographer could just go viral. Knowing the former minister, he’ll probably give all such well-meant suggestions the middle finger. Or will he just opt for the pinky? I wonder? * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.