De Lille took a two-week break after quitting the DA and relinquishing her mayoral chain. But it is understood that she was busy with the formation of a political party, to contest the general elections next year. The announcement, according to a source, will put the heat on the DA. It “will be messy”, said the source and pose a threat to the party with which she had been embroiled in legal disputes and battles, leading to her resignation on October 31. “I want to remain in politics. It’s the mechanics - the how - that I will share with the public tomorrow,” De Lille said. “The DA to me is history. I have moved on”. Asked whether the party had a name, she responded: “It doesn’t. We are busy with the process of putting structures in place. We are working on the logistics. But over the past two weeks I have been consulting on the ground and the announcement is about the outcome of those consultations.” A source confirmed De Lille would unveil a political party today but the logistics of the logo, its name, colours and other details would come later. “We are working on communication structures like the website, Facebook page, Twitter, etc,” De Lille said. The announcement comes two days after the DA, through City of Cape Town councillors Xanthea Limberg and Angus McKenzie, laid criminal charges against De Lille related to an alleged SMS she sent to Limberg asking her to score former city manager Achmat Ebrahim, high in an interview as she wanted to keep him. De Lille dismissed the claim, saying it was part of the continued attack on her name as Limberg had signed a declaration after the interviews, confirming the selection process of the city manager was fair. Political analyst Professor Bheki Mngomezulu said a new political party was not the best option for the political veteran, who had a fallout with the DA after merging her former political party, Independent Democrats with it. The merger saw the DA’s membership grow significantly in the Western Cape, leading to the party’s control of the municipality and the province. Mngomezulu warned that despite De Lille’s political credentials, a new political party would not last long and would eventually “die a natural death”. “Many might join the party, but most of them will be vying for positions,” Mngomezulu said. He said among those who might support De Lille’s party were the five councillors who also resigned expressing racism in the DA. Former chief whip Shaun August, mayoral committee members Siya Mamkeli and former councillors Suzette Little, Gregchan Barnardo and Thulani Stemele, have lodged a defamation case against DA leader Mmusi Maimane, claiming R1million each. They say Maimane failed to retract a public statement he made in which he claimed that they were implicated in a Bowmans Gilfillan report and that they were covering up corruption in the city. None of their names were in the report nor were they implicated in the investigation, they said. bulelway.payi@inl.co.za Weekend Argus