Chief economist at the Efficient Group, Dawie Roodt said South Africans love spending, despite not affording it. He said Black Friday was a fairly new concept, which spilled over from America, and could “become quite big in the future”. And the winners on Black Friday, according to Roodt, were retailers and consumers, alike. “Voluntary transactions are always to the benefit of both parties at the time of the transaction. However, people may come to regret it in future.” President of the Cape Chamber of Commerce, Janine Myburgh said Black Friday may not be all it’s made out to be. She said it boosts sales and creates excitement for shoppers and business, and while it was welcomed, questions must be asked about its success. “To what extent does it generate new sales that would not otherwise have happened or are consumers getting smart and postponing purchases to Black Friday when they may get a better deal? If the latter is true, Black Friday might not be as big a success as its promoters believe,” she said. Myburgh said people who plan on buying electronic goods such as TV sets, could wait for Black Friday to get a cheaper deal: “But be careful because it is also a way for dealers to clear their shelves of older models,” she said. If Black Friday goods are bought on credit, it could void any possible saving. “Don’t get carried away by the excitement and overspend. “Interest rates are high on credit card sales so take that into account when making purchases and you could be paying for Black Friday specials for a long time,” Myburgh said. Arthur Goldstuck, managing director at World Wide Worx, said online shopping on Black Friday probably doubled every year, versus overall online retail going up by 25% a year. That trend was highlighted in the World Wide Worx Online Retail in South Africa 2019 report released this month. “It could reach half a billion rand this year, if we include the so-called CyberMonday that follows,” he said. Online shops, he said, would have to up their server, call centre and payment acceptance capacity to deal with increased traffic. Retailers, however, have been gearing up for Black Friday for months. The Shoprite Group said in the past there was a demand for electronics and appliances, but spending this year could be different. Pick * Pay gave online shoppers an early start when it launched some deals two weeks ago in Cape Town, Pretoria and Joburg, “as a taste of what is to come”. Pick * Pay said deals and savings would be “bigger and better than last year”, both in-store and online. Last year, Canal Walk had 120000 shoppers on Black Friday. Marketing manager Vanessa Herbst said there were shops that would operate from midnight, while other stores would open earlier and close later on the day. The V&A Waterfront said it had a “trouble-free” Black Friday last year. Head of public relations and communications, Donald Kau said, together with tenants, it would ensure there was enough staff to deal with people on Black Friday. karen.pretorius@inl.co.za Weekend Argus