Durban - Ratepayers have had enough of receiving outrageous bills from the municipality. This was seen after a Durban resident asked in a Facebook group if she was the only one receiving outrageous bills from the municipality. Her post received over 120 comments and more than 130 reactions. EThekwini Municipality residents are fed up. Even those who send their meter readings every month without fail have also received bills that do not correspond with the meter reading they sent. Instead the municipality is using estimates.  Here is what some of them said: Debbie Spinner: Sadly tenders are given and they could not be bothered to actually read the meter so just thumb suck an estimation. I would suggest you take a meter reading and email it together with your account number to your local municipality. You then also have evidence of mismanagement Balie Naicker: You are not the only one dear Lots of us are being robbed but there is nothing we can do. Just frustrated Mahomed Dhooma: I am also getting ripped off every month. My electricity and water ends up more than my car installment. Unfortunately we are paying for all illegal connections. Fallon Roskruge: At least you getting bills, 3 months and counting Colleen Brown: We too are not receiving our bills each month and when we eventually do they are extremely high. WHY? Cheryl Micholson: Be careful of their tactics......you send a reading or they take a reading.....2 wks later they send someone to do another reading so it adds on 2 more weeks.we refused to give that reading and gave them the correct dates reading Elizabeth Wessels: We got an account of R24 000, still trying to sort it out. According to Ethekwini we use 100 units per day, yet it is 32 units per day Reetha Kistensamy: I send them meter reading ,SMS, they reply system cannot capture my reading technical problems so they estimate, water meter reading is taken monthly y not the same for electricity in fact electricity reading is never taken Others proposed the solution of a prepaid meter: Branden Premlall: The municipality has people to read the water and electricity meter once in 3 months and they estimate on your usages. To prevent this you need to go to the municipality office and change the water and electricity meter to prepaid, there's a waiting period also for it. Vernon Pather: Go prepaid electricity only pay for what you use.water and rates is pretty much stable. Alicia Lee Chowtee: I have prepaid meter box, I buy R600 a month only its 6 of us in the family still I have excess, its a solution guys Daily News