Kimberley - A 71-year-old Kimberley woman was killed after a vehicle smashed through a wall of her granny flat and crashed into her bed in the early hours of on Thursday morning. The woman, Isabella Viviers, was declared dead on the scene by paramedics after a silver Audi Q5, allegedly driven by a close family member, crashed into her garden flat in Cassandra at around 2.30am on Thursday morning. The vehicle landed on top of the elderly woman, who was sleeping in her bed. The driver apparently told the police that she had left her home, which is on the same property as Viviers’ flat, in the silver Audi Q5 shortly before the incident, as she wanted to buy some KFC takeaway. She said that she, however, noticed that she did not have money with her and returned home. She apparently stopped at the gate but then allegedly stepped on the accelerator instead of the brake pedal and crashed the car into the flat where Viviers was sleeping. The fire department was called to remove the vehicle from the flat but Viviers was found unresponsive and declared dead on the scene by paramedics. It is believed that the driver was taken into custody by police and taken to the Kimberley Magistrate’s Court’s holding cells, where she was expected to appear on a charge of culpable homicide on Thursday morning. It was, however, decided by the Kimberley Magistrate’s Court senior public prosecutor, Tebogo Namisa, that the case would not yet be placed on the roll and the woman would be released, as more investigation still needed to be done into the “strange incident”. Police spokesperson, Captain Olebogeng Tawana, on Thursday confirmed that police were investigating a case of culpable homicide after a woman was “fatally injured during an accident”. At the property in Cassandra where Viviers died, a massive hole in the wall of her flat could be seen on Thursday, with pieces of brick and rubble swept into a pile nearby, and the inside of the flat was visible from the street. Diamond Fields Advertiser