Hollywood frequently comes knocking on Cape Town’s doors to film its movies and make use of the world-class film studios and production companies that call the Mother City home base. The talent pool runs deep in the city with the rise of younger filmmakers, actors and producers making their way into the burgeoning film industry. Hilary Ijieh, 20, is an aspiring young actress who will jet off to New York next month to try and impress a throng of American scouts that include representatives from Tyler Perry Studios, Walt Disney Pictures and True Model Management. “I have many acting and dancing awards and performances under my belt, but I'm definitely still excited to learn more and grow as an actress and model,” says Ijieh. Born in the Eastern Cape to Nigerian parents, Ijieh’s family moved to Cape Town when she was just a month old and although the opportunity to work in the US excites the young thespian, her greatest ambition is to give back to the local film industry.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The US is not where it’s all at and although I haven’t achieved my dreams yet I want to share my story with others and show them that if you want to achieve something you can do it, which is really important for young people coming into the industry,” she said. Over the years she has participated in multiple eisteddfods, graduated Grade 9 Trinity College of London, and even attended a performing arts tour to London and Stratford. Ijieh has been featured in various on-stage productions and performed on the Artscape and Grand West stages. She has also been a guest interviewer on YoTV Voxies and YoTV Design Indaba. Most recently she filmed a commercial for Varsity College. With a maturity beyond her years, Ijieh believes that the most important thing young actors can do is to have a fallback option. “Luckily for me, my parents have been supportive of my decision to try out acting but after we discussed things we came to a decision that it’s better to have something to my name so I’m in my final year of a BCom in Marketing,” she said. Ijieh’s best advice for fellow actors of her generation is to “never be bitter” and to never be discouraged. “There’s going to be times when you walk into a casting and see someone else and think they’re better, taller, prettier but don’t take that to heart because you’re different in a lot of ways and you’ll find something that fits,” she said. Laurian Nortjie, 30,  and Indira Tsengiwe, 29,  have forged their way through the film industry and through their production company Youngpreneur Media,and have produced television series for the SABC. Some of their shows have been broadcast in 18 countries across the continent. “I studied finance at UCT and met up with Laurian and we started to talk about ideas I had around entrepreneurship because the youth were so vehemently against it and I wanted to change the perception,” said Tsengiwe. After the pair linked up they formed their production company and have since produced four TV series, three documentaries and a magazine, and have profiled 680 entrepreneurs. The duo are the brains behind the successful SABC seriesThe Mavericks, which features prominent and successful entrepreneurs on each episode. Nortjie is a former presenter on the Hectic Nine-9 show and said that there was real pushback from the SABC to do a show that advocated for empowerment because the national broadcaster wanted to know how you make the show “glamorous”. “People wanted relatability and we decided that we would ask different and personal questions. We wanted to tell stories about entrepreneurship in a sexy way that got the youth to realise how important entrepreneurship is for empowerment,” said Nortjie. The next step for the young entrepreneurs who are a living embodiment of their show is to run an eight-week course, which 30 young people will participate in with the goal of having an operational business by the end of the process. “It’s one thing that can change someone's life and entrepreneurship is a solution to a problem,” said Tsengiwe. Their advice for the youth is to break the mould and step outside of the comfort zone by expanding the network and listening to diverse opinion. “Your network all look like you and that doesn’t serve you because you have to go with ideas that you wouldn’t normally think of while you need to listen to people who you disagree with because they have a new perspective,” said Tsengiwe. 