Durban - A two-week undercover sting operation by KwaZulu-Natal police resulted in the arrest of a 29-year-old suspected drug dealer who was allegedly found in possession of R300 000 worth of drugs. "We cannot disclose our undercover operations, but the suspect might linked to other dealers in greater Durban area," said Police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. The arrested suspect is expected to appear in court on Friday. He is facing charges of drug dealing. Members of the police's Provincial Drug, Firearm and Gang Unit made the bust on Wednesday after an undercover operation. "These police officers had done a lot of hard undercover work in trying to identify and unearth this alleged notorious drug dealer. Police spent many long hours, day and night holding static observations on this particular individual," Zwane said. On Wednesday at 9pm police made their move when police officers spotted the suspect travelling in his vehicle in the Amanzimtoti Central Business District.  Zwane said police stopped the man, identified themselves and upon searching him, they found some cocaine and methecatinone in his possession. Officers then took the suspect to his home where they conducted a search. "During the search, large amounts of rock cocaine, cocaine and methecatinone were discovered. Some of the drugs found were wrapped in plastic bags and it appeared as if they were ready for sale. The rest of the drugs had not been cut up yet. An amount of R3 000 was also seized from the suspect. The estimated street value of the drugs seized is R300 000," said Zwane. Zwane said the scourge of drug abuse is ravaging communities and contributing to the crime epidemic that could "soon culminate to a national crisis".  "Unfortunately this pandemic does not discriminate between race, gender, age or creed. It engulfs anybody willing to partake in it. We have all witnessed the dire consequences which come with the use of drugs. Families have been left broken up, young kids leaving home, professionals leaving their employment, young girls turning into prostitution, boys turning into crime, the list is endless," he said.   "The most unfortunate part is that a few individuals are gaining financial wealth at the expense of this suffering. It is on this score that South African Police Service has doubled its efforts and commitment in the fight against this ill-fated habit. It must be pointed out from the onset that we cannot win this battle alone. It needs other stakeholders to come to the party. The communities who live amongst these drug dealers and users must come forward with relevant information so that police can swiftly act on it," said Zwane. Daily News