Known as Cape Town’s “Bubble Boy”, Ayaan returned home in January after spending 10 months in a hospital in the US for gene therapy and treatment for complications that arose. “For a child of his age to have gone through all that is unimaginable. He has had so many needles in his body, received chemotherapy and other treatments and he’s thriving “ says his mother, Shamaa Sheik. But Ayaan can now make full contact with his parents, siblings, grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins without them having to wear masks and gloves and cover themselves for fear of passing on anything that could trigger an infection. In April 2017, Ayaan was diagnosed with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), a genetic disorder of the immune system affecting about 1 in 58000 births. It makes babies highly susceptible to severe bacterial, viral and fungal infections and can be fatal. Children with SCID are not expected to live beyond one year. This came after he had undergone numerous surgeries to, among other things, remove abscesses from his liver and to insert a tube to help with feeding. Doctors told Sheik her son would need a bone marrow transplant to survive, but she says the complexities of finding a match were never explained. Frustrated by the lack of medical feedback, she did her own research on alternatives. “That’s when I found out about gene therapy. I studied about it a lot and during a brief meeting with the transplant team in August 2016 I asked them about the gene therapy but they dissuaded me. I was told of high costs and possibly causing leukaemia. I took the advice with a pinch of salt. “I also came across some information that there had been developments in the medical field to rectify this. Since the early 2000s the success rate of gene therapy had increased.” But she also searched for stories of parents who had gone on the journey to hospitals overseas to find a place open for trial. One in London would only have an opening in late June 2017, and Ayaan wouldn’t be able to survive that long. Sheik also found a hospital in Memphis, US, the St Jude Children’s Research Hospital. “We didn’t have the luxury of time. I contacted them without the knowledge of my husband because he didn’t want to consider gene therapy. Within half an hour of contacting the hospital, I received feedback. What helped me was that I had educated and empowered myself and I could ask the right questions,” she adds. But there were obstacles. “The complication was around eligibility. The hospital took children of up to a year old for the trial and Ayaan would have been over a year old. But they asked for a special grant from health regulators.” Ayaan was eventually accepted into the gene therapy trial in March 2017 and received his miracle on Freedom Day, April 27. “It was like science fiction. It was an eclipse. It took just four minutes to complete. But it gave him a rare opportunity he wouldn’t have had,” Sheik says. So what in essence is gene therapy? “It’s like correcting a spelling error in his genetic code. Ayaan’s genetic code runs and runs and suddenly stops, thus tells his body to stop producing the amino acid that’s responsible for fighting off infection. So the gene therapy locates that spelling error and corrects it,” Sheik explains. By the third week after the trial, Ayaan had made significant improvement. “Children with SCID are not supposed to get live vaccines because they cannot process it. But in his case he had to get the BCG which resulted in complications, including massive open wounds. “He was put on treatment and doctors needed to monitor him closely. They were meticulous,” she adds. In March Ayaan celebrated turning two years of age, the first birthday celebration. While the family celebrates the “miracles”, there have been some drawbacks. “Some things are familiar to him, others are strange. He loves being outdoors.” Ayaan will need speech therapy, at least four sessions a week, and a medical tube to help with feeding. “These cost a fortune. And we are unable to afford these at this stage. We need financial sponsors to help him advance to the next levels of his journey.” To follow Ayaan’s epic journey and make contact with his parents to help, you can go to the Facebook page: awareness 4 ayaan ahmed #myscidchampion.