JOHANNESBURG - Former Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela is a wanted man locally and abroad. Komphela resign as Chiefs manager after succumbing 2-0 to Free State Stars in the semi-final of the Nedbank Cup at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. He resigned with immediate effect after the match, bringing to an end three fruitless season at Amakhosi as he failed to deliver the silverwares. His agent, Tim Sukazi of Quality Talent, says Komphela is a wanted man. "There's interest in Steve's services but we haven't opened up official talks with those teams that enquired about his services. At this stage, I can't reveal the names of the clubs who have enquiried about him. I have inquiries locally and there's one team overseas" Sukazi elaborated without mentioning names. Other than Chiefs, SuperSport United and Polokwane City are currently the only teams in top flight football that don't have coaches. Matsatsantsa a Pitori parted ways with Eric Tinker in the middle of the season, while Bernard Molekwa has been an interim coach at City since the departure of Luc Eymael. Baroka FC had a vacancy, but are reported to have hired former Kaizer Chiefs striker and Zambian international Wedson Nyirenda. Nyirenda vacated his post as the Zambia head coach in May. Komphela has been around the coaching circle for a while having managed clubs like Dynamos, Manning Rangers, South Africa's Under-23 national team, Free State Stars, Platinum Stars and Maritzburg United. The former Bafana Bafana captain is still searching for the first silverware of his coaching career. Komphela has also served at the senior national team as an assistant coach to Stuart Baxter and Pitso "Jingles" Mosimane.      SuperSport United did also enquire about Eymael but they have yet to open official talks with Free State Stars boss. The Belgian is still contracted at Stars and has a buyout clause on his current deal with the club. It wouldn't come as a surprise if United are interested in the services of Komphela. The club CEO, Stan Matthews, opened up about the desire to ensure stability in the coaching structure. Matsatsantsa a Pitori have been changing coaches like nobody's business since the departure of Gavin Hunt in 2013. Gordon Igesund, Cavin Johnson, Stuart and Eric Tinkler all came and went in the space of five seasons.  Hunt spent six seasons at the club during his successful spell in the country's capital city. IOL Sport   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 