Prince, dubbed “the Lakeside Butcher”, was sentenced to life imprisonment yesterday for the brutal murder of a Scottish grandmother in her southern suburbs home in 2015. Prince was found guilty in March of butchering and stabbing Scottish expat Sandra Malcolm 24 times in her modest Lakeside home in April 2015. Prince was 18 at the time. The frenzied attack came after Malcolm, 74, heeded Prince’s warning not to call the police after she had broken into the pensioner’s house through a bathroom 
window. Instead Malcolm made Prince some tea and toast and treated her injured foot. When Malcolm offered to call an ambulance for the teenager, she stabbed the pensioner repeatedly in her throat, lungs, heart and other vital organs. Then after beheading, dismembering and disembowelling Malcolm, Prince disposed of her body parts in a wheelie bin. Sweeping aside all possible circumstances such as age and a clean record that could mitigate a life sentence, Judge Langa described Prince as “a dangerous person who should not be unleashed on the unsuspecting public”. Although not a full-blown psychopath, he said, Prince had “psychopathic traits and is likely to commit violent crimes again”. The former tik addict and casual farmworker also “had no prospects of a successful rehabilitation”, he added. Prince’s lack of remorse for a “savage and heinous” murder counted against her, said Judge Langa, and was “indicative of her failure to grasp the seriousness of harm to the victim and others”. This included the “emotional devastation” that Prince’s “cold brutality” wreaked on Malcolm’s family both in South Africa and Scotland, noted Judge Langa, referring to the testimonies of her daughter, Alison Williams, and husband Arthur. “Ms Williams lamented about the adverse effects of the murder on her son, who made the gruesome discovery and is still undergoing therapy as a result. She stated that she personally did not even have the courage to view the photos of the deceased, which is understandable as they are dreadful. “The deceased was, according to the family, an exceptionally kind and considerate woman who was always willing to help those around her, just as she demonstrated with the kindness she extended to the accused just before she killed her,” said Judge Langa. Paying tribute to the prosecution and the police, Alison Williams said she was ecstatic about Prince’s life sentence. “We’ll be cracking open a bottle of Champagne. We’ve had a bottle prepared for three years. It’s taken us a long time to open it but it has finally ended. “After three years, we finally have got justice and it’s a relief.” A life sentence wouldn’t bring her mother back, said Williams, “but it helps us to know that another family won’t have 
to endure what we have been through. “Now hopefully my mum can rest in peace and we can get on with our lives which have been on hold for three years. But it’s going to be strange waking up to realising the trial is actually all over.” Describing her mother as a “one in a million woman loved by everyone who met her”, Williams said she looked forward to trying to find closure. “We have a rough time ahead of us but it’s the start of a new chapter. “Maybe we can let go of our anger as we continue seeing our psychologists. We’ll never get over it but, one day a time, we will 
learn to manage being without her. But the pain will never leave us. Every time we think of my mum we will think of the way she died. Hopefully that will change over time.” Williams ruled out ever forgiving Prince, who remained chillingly dispassionate throughout her sentencing. “It’s out of the question, which is foreign to us because my mother never raised us like that. But I can’t ever forgive her and nor can my family. “Maybe I could if it was a spur of the moment murder, but not for the cruelty she showed my mother. It’s beyond comprehension that any sane person would do what she did. “Some people are born evil and I think she is one of them.”