After being exposed to domestic violence from childhood the Steenberg resident thought it was normal to go through violence and hurt in a relationship. “I saw my mother and father fighting from time to time. My father would drink and fight with my mother and it would get violent,” said Gallie.  At the age of 16, she met a man and fell for his charm. She said they would do drugs together and then he would never be around. “When I was 17 I found out I was pregnant, he was never around and every time I tried to communicate with him, he would hit me.” The last straw for Gallie was when he hit her so that she fell through a window. She sustained various cuts to her face and head. “There was so much blood and my head was so sore but I was scared to get medical help.” She then left the man and at 19 met another man, an ex-convict, and things were rosy in the early stages until it became brutal. Gallie said it became worse than her first relationship. Her ribs were hurt and her face was bruised from him hitting her constantly and she was again too scared to get any medical help because she did not want to upset her partner. After each encounter with him, she would heal and not tell a soul because she was afraid of what would happen to him and what he would do to her. Things became difficult financially and they had a fall-out with family. This resulted in Gallie and her partner sleeping on the streets for about two years. She continued to be verbally and physically abused by him. Gallie went to a rehab to help her stop using drugs. While on her road to recovery, she was still dealing with abuse from her partner. She said she tried to get a court interdict, but was scared after she was told by the police it was serious and she should have reported it to them the same day of the abuse. Her partner would show up to the Gallie household and intimidate her. “Eventually my mother got a court interdict against him so he isn’t allowed at the house anymore. Even though I still feel scared. I still second-guess my actions and thoughts because I think he will be happy with this.” She then sought help from Moriedah Dien from the organisation Dews of Quietness. She learnt to speak about what was happening to her and received counselling sessions to guide her towards doing what was best for her. Going to church and speaking to her pastor got her through the difficult days. After 11 years, Gallie has cut all ties with her partner. However, she said it was hard to avoid him because his house is close to where she lives. Gallie said although the physical violence had stopped and he is not allowed on the property where she lives, the verbal abuse continues.