The Mbutho family expressed their gratitude for Detective Eugene Bathandwa Kutwana’s assistance during their time of bereavement. They buried two cousins, aged 8 and 11, last Saturday and said their load had been lightened by Kutwana’s help. The aunt of the pair, Nikiwe Mbutho, said: “We were not aware of what was needed and still very shocked by the loss of the children. The detective helped explain the whole process of DNA identification to us. “He would come early in the morning and offer us a lift to the morgue, checking in on 
how we were doing and how funeral arrangements were going. “We can’t express our gratitude enough. We have never encountered such interaction from police, especially in this day and age we live in. He certainly is a good officer and we pray he continues to assist others with the same humility.” Mbutho said that unlike some police officers, Kutwana had worked tirelessly, assisting and counselling the family, and offered his transport services and guidance in getting through the necessary paperwork, including death certificates and funeral policies. Labour lawyer Michael Bagraim said officers like Kutwana showed that SAPS officials do their work in a humane manner despite the difficulties they often face. “Kutwana went beyond the call of duty and arranged to assist the family. He escorted the family to Home Affairs, and even contacted the local councillor and arranged for a trauma counsellor to assist the family. “Officer Kutwana should have his 
praises sung throughout South Africa for the enormous good deeds he did over that devastating weekend,” said Bagraim. Kutwana, who has worked as a detective for 13 years, said that as a parent, the Mbutho family’s loss touched him, and he wanted to ensure they did not have the added pain of having to run after police or the mortuary when dealing with the loss. “Seeing that woman lose her kids the way it happened it was not about me but about that woman and her family, and making sure she doesn’t feel the same pain running after the police or mortuary. “When people see cops these days, they’ve really lost trust. I believe there are good cops out there doing their job to the best of their ability, but people fail to see the good things we’re doing,” said Kutwana. Provincial police spokesperson Elna de Beer said the service was proud of Kutwana. She said he was working according to instruction and procedure and was an asset to the service. - CAPE ARGUS