On Wednesday night, Weekend Argus attended a special pajama party at the Cullinan Hotel, with the bubbly, vivacious Lange. Lange is no stranger to the limelight and she recently became the latest addition to Kfm 94.5’s daytime line-up. She is currently on Bravo on KykNet and Tussen Ons which will air in July on KykNet & Kie. Lange has, since Thursday, been the new host of the 9-12 slot at Kfm and her debut was one of much pomp and ceremony. A few of Lange’s close friends and industry peers were pampered at the Cullinan, all in preparation for her take-over of the airwaves the next day. Weekend Argus spent some time with Lange, who is known for her “flou” jokes to really get to the know the woman that is the latest toast of the Cape Town radio scene. She has also vowed to keep the “flou” jokes coming as they are such a big part of who she is. Lange was born in Somerset West and is the youngest of two girls and said she is “blessed” that she still has both 
parents. “My dad, Colin Lange, is 71 and my mom, Theresa, is 62. They are in Somerset West and have been married for 43 years,” said Lange. Asked where she gets her love for life from and whether she wakes up bubbly, Lange said: “I actually do. I really don’t even think about it, I think it’s more a case of being incredibly grateful all the time and the gratitude allows for so much happiness.” Her interest in broadcasting started at a community radio station in Somerset West, while just helping out on weekends for fun and she admitted that she never expected it to become a full-time career. “This year I will be celebrating 11 years on radio and seven on TV,” she added. Lange said she is definitely more of a cat person as they are so much more independent. Asked about which medium she prefers, radio or TV she said: “When I’m on radio, I prefer radio and when I’m on TV, I prefer TV. I just love both of the mediums too much.” Lange is not afraid to chat to people on the streets and often just chats with strangers as she finds all people friendly. Programme manager at Kfm 94.5, Steve Werner, said: “Tracey is a brilliant talent - not only in radio, but also across TV and digital platforms. She is smart, funny and has a deep understanding of the medium and a strong connection with the Cape Town market.” Werner added that Lange is the final move in their line-up. “Her ability to tell great stories and connect with audiences is key to the 9am-12pm workday show.”