Russia-born Darius Jakovchuk, 39, of Bloubergstrand, returned to Russia for the first time last year for the Confederations Cup, which precedes the World Cup. He was also in the stands in Cape Town during the 2010 World Cup.  “To me the 2010 World Cup was about patriotism; the country was at its most unified moment. “I’m going to Russia this year because I want to relive that experience,” Jakovchuk, a partner in the reality show Last Fighter Standing, which aired on e.tv in 2016, said. “Even though I’m not a football fan, I have the football fever, or ‘gees’, so to speak. “I’m a promoter of martial arts, but this World Cup is an opportunity for me to relive 2010 all over again. The gees is even there for people like me who don’t even watch soccer. “I can feel patriotism running through my body. I am proudly South African, but I was born in Russia,” he said. Two other Capetonians accompanied him to the Confederations Cup. They were hosted by the Russian consulate, and watching the games was a “phenomenal” experience. “What amazed me was the infrastructure and the co-ordination of about 60000 people entering and exiting the stadium. It was beautiful to see how everyone was guided.” Jakovchuk said South Africans should expect “maximum sophistication” in terms of organisation at the World Cup. In the past incidents of hooliganism among Russian soccer supporters were widely reported on, but Jakovchuk said if his experience was anything to go by, such violence was a thing of the past. “Russia really caters for tourists, and South Africans should expect to spend around the same for accommodation, food and transport as they do in their local cities. “Russia’s economy is very similar to ours.” Also heading to Russia for the World Cup is passionate soccer fan Arthur Calamaras, a Camps Bay resident who supports Brazil and England. He went to Germany for the 2006 World Cup, and watched in 2010. “As a big fan of the game, I’m excited about going. “I don’t think one can understand what it’s like to be at a stadium. There is an electric atmosphere in a competition of that magnitude.”