Durban - A Brazilian runner, who ran the Comrades Marathon on Sunday has become an online hit after a video showing him dancing to the popular hit song Omunye by Durban’s Distruction Boyz went viral. Brazilian national Iago Marcal said that at the time he danced to the popular hit, it was towards the end of his Comrades run and it was his way of thanking the roadside supporters for all their love and energy shown during the race. “It was around 85 kilometres. I stopped because between 50 and 70 kilometres I had really tough moments in my run. The supporters really helped me, massaging my legs and sending me much energy. I wanted to say thank you them and to give them some energy. So I stopped at around 85 kilometres and the dance was a kind of thank you to the supporters.” A video of Marcal dancing has gone viral with it being shared wildly over WhatsApp. Marcal has also loaded it onto YouTube. Some of the Facebook comments included people wanting to know where he learned how to dance so well.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We have a similar style of music in Brazil called Funk and I normally see people dancing, South African style to that music… so I put a bit of Brazilian style, I found my own kind of style, just to have fun. I don’t see myself as a good dancer, I just a person that likes to have fun,” he laughed. Asked if he expected such a massive response on social media, Marcal said: “I’m just laughing all the time at the reaction, because I got what I wanted. I wanted to share my happiness and say thank you to the supporters at the race. And now with all the people commenting and sharing the video, it’s really positive. "I really love the people of South Africa and with all the people sharing the video, I hope more supporters and volunteers who help out with Comrades will see the video. It’s just my way of saying thank you to them for all their support during the race.” Marcal said the Comrades Marathon is famously known in Brazil. “It’s been my dream for five years to run the Comrades two times in a row and get my back-to-back medal and I finally got it this year, so I’m so happy. You have no idea how much I wanted this medal. I can’t explain exactly why I love Comrades so much, but I really have this race in my heart same way I have some good friends and my family.” The 25-year-old ran for Carbineers Western Province club. He finished the race in 10 hours and 17 minutes (total time 10:17:49), earning himself a Bronze Medal. “That was my second year (running the Comrades) and I will be always running Comrades when it is possible for the rest of my life,” he said. Daily News