This comes weeks after deadly wars over routes between operators associated with the Congress of Democratic Taxi Association (Codeta) and the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata) in Delft, Nyanga and Khayelitsha last month that left about 15 drivers killed and several passengers wounded. On Saturday police attended to a shooting where a driver was shot and killed from within the taxi while driving close to the corner of Kendal and Durbanville Road at around 11.30am. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk confirmed the incident, stating that the shooting occurred from inside the taxi. While it is unclear what led to the Durbanville shootout, residents of Joe Slovo, in Milnerton, are also searching for answers with regards to the taxi-related shooting on Tuesday. According to police a white Quantum minibus taxi had stopped at the rank shortly after 6am and four unknown suspects got out and fired on the crowds, leaving seven people wounded. One person died later in hospital. A day later a police raid at the rank saw police recovering two firearms and live ammunition. A community leader who wished to not be identified said residents were fearful of taxi conflicts spilling over into the area. “We are all on alert, the taxi rank is located right in the middle of the community, near a school and people’s homes, so when things like this happen it poses a big risk to those who not only live there but depend on public transport,” he said. “The fact that nobody saw this coming has increased fears in the area, it is not something that can be pre-empted. “We have asked for a meeting with the people that are affected to get to the bottom of this so that we can allay people’s fears. We cannot have another situation like Delft or Nyanga.” The area, which is operated by the Ysterplaat Taxi Association, Cata and Codeta, has reportedly seen an influx of new operators without licences. Spokesperson for the neighbouring Dunoon Taxi Association, Desmond Nobuntu, said they had noted an increase in new operators but would not state whether it was the cause of the fatal shoot-out. “No provisions were made when the taxis’ permits were sold to MyCiTi to fill the gap that was left by the taxis that were operating, so this left the door open for others,” he said. Both Codeta and Ysterplaat Taxi Association have indicated they would wait on police to conclude investigations before commenting on the motive behind the incident. Weekend Argus