Pieters and Naicker walked into the Blue Collar White Collar store on Kloof Street this week to raid the clothing racks of the 100% made in South Africa apparel, in what was a meeting of    musical and fashion minds.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In a mismatch of presence and style, the fashion stylist and musician set about choosing clothes that would not only fit 28-year-old Pieters’ current style but also freshen it up. “It’s tough for me to dress Robin because he’s so tall but we made it work,” quipped Naicker. The challenge for Naicker, chief executive of AfrikanSoul HQ, was to dress Pieters with clothes that could take him from a full day of interviews and running around town, to a performance on stage. “Robin is a music guy and an up-and-coming personality, so it’s important that the clothes fit the person’s persona. He’s very casual so we went for something that would fit his style philosophy. “I liked the layered look on him because he’s tall with broad shoulders. The outfit is going with what’s trendy at the moment but most importantly it’s going with what works for him,” said Naicker. Pieters took to the process enthusiastically, even though he displayed a timid shyness towards being the centre of attention. In a disciplined approach he adheres to the orders of the throng of stylists around him voicing their opinions. “I don’t know anything.They must tell me what to wear because they know best,” said Pieters. He added: “I’m a suit person and I think my fans have come to expect that of me when I’m on stage. I like to wear a jacket and a tie with some sneakers. That’s kind of my go-to clothes.” While Pieters describes his approach to clothing as “if it feels good and it looks good, it must be right,” for Naicker, it was important to give the singer an edgy new look that was also proudly South African with clothes that were ethically sourced. Naicker is proud of and advocates for the WearSA campaign which was started in conjunction with Southern African Clothing & Textiles Workers’ Union (SACTWU). The core mission of the WearSA campaign is “to grow and sustain the local manufacturing sector by creating a sustainable design model that supports ethical sourcing”. “It’s as much about supporting local designers and business as it is about job creation so that the resurgence in the local textile industry can continue,” said Naicker. Meanwhile, Pieters’ makeover comes at a pivotal moment in his career before the release of his forthcoming album later this year. “I’m working on it now and it’s going to show another side of me but still very much an R&B album. It’s going to be contemporary and I’m trying to build a story that will resonate with listeners instead of just stringing a group of songs together,” said Pieters. His transition from reality show finalist into an upcoming Capetonian pop star has led to greater activity on the local singing circuit with the release of his first single, Fool, in February. He debuted the song during a performance at GrandWest and through his newfound success the Athlone born singer remains acutely aware of the launch The Voice SA gave to his career after he performed as a backup singer before entering the competition. “I’m getting more and more busy with gigs and going to small dorpies. It’s hard work but I believe if you’re willing to put in the effort then the results will come to you. I wouldn’t be doing this if it wasn’t for The Voice,” he said.