Three of the 14 soloists spoke to Weekend Argus about their experiences with the programme ahead of the event at the Artscape on June 15. Siblings Rouzanna, 21, and Andreas Coxson, 17, busked at the V&A Waterfront during the school holidays in a bid to raise money for a new saxophone for Andreas. The pair are now in the programme. “I couldn’t afford a saxophone so we raised money through performing at the Waterfront and then they actually approached us and said we could use the amphitheatre and do a show there,” says Andreas. He is in matric at SACS and began playing the saxophone towards the end of Grade 6. His love for jazz began while playing the alto saxophone in a big band at Beau Soleil Music School, but he recently switched to the tenor saxophone. “I have a pure love for jazz music. My sister introduced the jazz elements into my sound when she went to university and now I don’t listen to any other music but jazz. “When you make someone feel something in them because of the way you play I can’t explain what that means,” he says. Rouzanna began playing piano at age five and is in her final year at the South African College of Music at UCT. After initially being classically trained, she switched to studying jazz piano. “I haven’t been playing jazz for very long so my knowledge isn’t as good, but I’ve enjoyed the sessions and learning about the different jazz cultures in the discipline,” she says. She  was struck by the talent levels of the soloists and is excited about the performance. “We’ve rehearsed together now and there are really good high school players in the group,” she says. Rouzanna composes and is working with her father on a musical called Plea for Peace. “It’s about promoting peace and anti-violence in the areas that are badly affected,” she says. Rouzanna is also a volunteer piano teacher at Kewtown Primary in Athlone. One of the most experienced participants in the programme is Ryan Truter, 19, from Belhar, who has performed at the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, Cape Town Jazzathon, Jazz on the Rocks Tieitiesbaai and as the Standard Bank National Youth Jazz Festival. “Even though I’ve been around quite a bit I’m still learning all the time and I’m glad to have experienced mentors around me. My main problem is that I’m not really outgoing with my physical performance and they’re trying to coach me in that,” he says. Truter began playing guitar at 12 and is in his third year  at the South African College of Music at UCT. “Being able to play an instrument gives you a unique way to express yourself and for others to see what you’re feeling,” he says.