Cape Town - A suspected car thief was allegedly kidnapped before his body was discovered with multiple stab wounds to his upper body in Brown’s Farm last week.Five people, including the owner of the vehicle he allegedly stole, are to appear at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court on Monday for kidnapping, robbery and murder. An eyewitness said the suspects had kidnapped the 21-year-old man and accused him of stealing a vehicle in Browns Farm, said police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana. She said the vehicle was found torched in Thabo Mbeki informal settlement in Philippi East. “The body of the deceased was found near the burnt-out vehicle, with multiple stab wounds to his upper body,” said Rwexana. She said the suspects, including the owner of the vehicle that was suspected to be stolen, also assaulted and stabbed the victim and drove away with him in a white Toyota Avanza. The owner of the vehicle allegedly forcefully took the cellphone of the witness. “We appeal to community members to refrain from taking the law into their own hands and report crime to the police. People who take the law into their own hands participate in criminal activity and will be prosecuted,” she said. Nyanga Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Martin Makasi condemned the incident, saying there were ongoing engagements with residents to report criminal acts to the police. “Community members are not trained to investigate, prosecute and judge suspects. Only a court of law can determine a person’s guilt and ensure that the application of the law is decided in a fair hearing,” he said. “Mob justice acts that end in death contribute to the murder statistics. Mob justice is unacceptable. “In a democracy there are proper channels to deal with crime and taking the law into your own hands is not the way to seek justice,” he said. Every month police were holding a community imbizo to engage residents from each of the four Nyanga precincts, he said. “We recognise that police cannot be at every corner; this is where the community fits in to be the eyes and ears of the police, not to break the law. “There is nothing wrong in suspecting a person of wrongdoing but proper channels must be followed in apprehending a suspect. “We operate under the country’s constitution which states that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise by a court of law. Those people who kill suspected criminals become criminals themselves. People should refrain from using their emotions and think about the consequences of their actions.” Makasi said the arrests of the five suspects would deter people from taking the law into their own hands.  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za  Cape Times