This as the branch holds its fourth provincial congress at Mutual Park in Pinelands to take stock and allow the 700 delegates, made up of members from 14 unions, to cast their votes for a new leadership. Ehrenreich, who announced a few months ago that he would not be standing for re-election, said he would continue to serve within the organisation but that it was time for new people to take the reins. The 56-year-old joined Cosatu in 1989 and went on to become its national deputy general secretary from 1991 to 2001. In 2011, after standing for and subsequently losing the City of Cape Town mayoral candidacy to Patricia de Lille, Ehrenreich was appointed as an ANC councillor. “It’s been 22 years and six terms and we have to think about term limits and the union has to renew with new leadership. I hope to remain somewhere in the union movement where I can continue to make a contribution but my 100% commitment and support is to Cosatu,” he said. “There is no consideration (in terms of playing a bigger role in ANC structures); you don’t consider these things yourself. If people feel like they want to elect you for some position, they will take that decision. “My life has been about serving the liberation movement, the democratic movement in particular, and I will continue to play that role.” While he’s ready for the trade union federation to move forward with new blood and new ideologies, he said the move forward would not be without its challenges. “Cosatu will be dealing with a lot of issues during the congress, which focuses on the socio-economic, political and organisational challenges that we have had over the last few years. “The unions are weaker than they were 10 years ago and that's something we need to address as matter of urgency.” In his address, provincial chairperson Motlatsi Tsubane paid special tribute to Ehrenreich for his contribution to the federation. “I want to single him out, not that he is more important than all of us, but because of the role he played within the federation,” he said. “Comrade Tony served this federation with distinction. You have been a pillar and guided us through the difficulties. "Your level of understanding in dealing with complex matters taught us a lot, and you were not selfish in sharing knowledge and experience with us. We will at all times cherish that.” Tsubane, who was elected at the 2015 congress, said the organisation had come a long way but that constant infighting within the affiliated unions continued to pose a threat to the federation as a whole. “I want to raise an issue that is posing as a threat to our federation. There is a phenomenon that has crept into our affiliates, which is infighting. Our affiliates have lost the plot of understanding why they exist. You are hell-bent with your infighting and (don't realise) the harm you cause to the unions and your members. “I want to tell you as you continue with your infighting that you are a threat to the federation. "As a leadership, we ask you delegates to work on a process which will allow the federation to have constitutional power to intervene in some troublesome unions. “Not only should we focus on coming to elect leadership, but engage and look into the issue whether it will be possible for the federation to have constitutional power so that when there are problems, the federation can intervene and not be threatened with court action,” Tsubane said. The new leadership will be announced later today.