Ruth Wessels, 18, has been selected for the provisional squad for the Tag Rugby World Cup to be hosted in Australia in November. Meanwhile, she is raising awareness about the sport. The provisional squad includes 51 players in the three teams: mixed open, men’s open and men over-40. A former Springbok, yet to be announced, will accompany the sides. Ruth, who is training with the mixed squad, said: “Since I have started playing Tag we are seeing more and more ladies getting involved. We are really a part of the team. I have thoroughly enjoyed my time in the Tag Boks squad and my fitness and skills levels have improved.” Tag Rugby SA falls under the South African Rugby Union. The Tag nationals, where a hundred more players will trial, are taking place on June 23-24 at the Villager Rugby Football Club in Claremont. A few players from that group could be added to the squad. Asked about the atmosphere in the Tag Boks, she said: “We have built a wonderful team spirit within the group. “The Tag Bok team to travel to the Tag World Cup in Coffs Harbour in November is going to be announced next
Saturday.” In terms of preparation, she said: “Things look on the right path towards the World Cup.” Beyond this World Cup, she dreams of leading the Tag SA team in front of her home crowd and, with speculation rife that the Tag Rugby Association could bid for the 2024 Tag World Cup to be hosted in Cape Town, her dream doesn’t appear far-fetched. She believes SA Tag rugby, particularly women’s participation in the sport, is growing. “Tag rugby is one of the few sports that give both male and female (an opportunity) to play in the same team as well as same leagues. “The growth has been steady but since October last year the number of ladies playing has increased tremendously,” Ruth, who plays rugby, sevens rugby and Tag rugby, said. “(Tag rugby) has branched out and females can also partake. In South Africa not many females play, but around the world are lots of teams that consists of females. And it is increasing each year.” She added that the fact that the final game at this year’s Tag World Cup would be the mixed open final, was a testimony that the game was transforming. Describing the game of Tag rugby, she said: “Tag is a skilled-based game that can be played by men and women. Players wear tags on each hip which their opponents try to remove when they have the ball. “(Tag rugby) can still grow a lot bigger in South Africa as we will only be playing in our second World Cup with the first one back in 2015. The Tag Rugby Association has school programmes that looks to get schoolkids (Grade R-12) involved and they could potentially be the future Tag Boks.” Stuart McConnell, Tag Rugby SA director, described Ruth as an excellent player, who “stands a very good chance of making the squad”. Ruth urged readers who would like to know how to help the Tag Boks get to the Tag World Cup to call McConnell from the Tag Rugby Association on 082 440 1921.