It is an ambitious and universal health-care insurance fund that proposes free top-notch health services to every South African, rich or poor. On Wednesday, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi  released the long-awaited NHI Bill for public comment, paving the way for the establishment of the NHI fund, a central fund  that will buy health-care services. Once the bill becomes law South Africans would be required to pay towards the fund before they pay for their medical aid premiums, if they opt to keep their medical aids. Addressing the media this week, Motsoaledi said the NHI would pool funds that were contributed by all South Africans into the fund, depending on how much one earns, and would provide everyone with free access to public- and private-sector providers across the country. The NHI has been a talking point since 2007 when the ANC adopted the idea at its Polokwane conference. This was by the followed the release of the NHI  Green Paper in 2011 that promised to have universal health-care in place within 14 years, yet many South Africans still don’t know much about the fund, almost a decade later. Here is a simple breakdown of how the fund will affect you in the near future. * What is the National Health Insurance (NHI)Bill? According to Motsoaledi, NHI is a health financing system that pools funds to provide access to quality health services for all South Africans based on their health needs and irrespective of their socio-economic status. It will need a massive reorganisation of the current health system, both public and private. Its goal is to establish a fund that aims to achieve sustainable and affordable access to health-care services. * How will it affect  average South Africans? Dr Anban Pillay, deputy director-general for health regulation and compliance within the national Department of Health, said the universal health coverage was about ensuring that all people have access to the much-needed promotive, curative and rehabilitative health services, while ensuring people don’t suffer financial hardship when paying for such services. “It’s about leaving no one behind, a commitment to equality, non-discrimination and a human-rights based approach to service provision,” said Pillay. * Will your current medical aid be affected? Motsoaledi said government subsidies for civil servants and the schemes that are restricted to government employees would eventually be scrapped, as there would be no need for them. However, those who can afford to pay for medical aids will have an option to top up. * How long will it take until it comes into effect? According to the NHI Green Paper, NHI will be implemented gradually in three phases over a 14-year period, even though the NHI Bill does not give an actual date of implementation. The five-year pilot phase on NHI was, however, phased in in April 2012. The pilots were meant to serve about 10270000 people or 20% of the country’s population. National Treasury has allocated R1billion for the pilots across 10 districts in South Africa. Motsoaledi has said on several occasions that the NHI would not be an event where there would be a date of implementation. Interested parties have three months in which to comment on the bill, which was published at the same time as the Medical Schemes Amendment Bill.