Durban - Implementing safety measures played an important role for a working-class Mpumalanga couple following a horrific incident with their eldest child. After sensing something amiss with their daughter, who was cared for by a nanny, Derisha Newton, 36, and her husband Antony, 37, of Witbank installed CCTV cameras and were shocked by what they found. “I started looking for a nanny before Anika (now aged 4) was born. We found a wonderful lady who loved Anika, but due to her family circumstances she needed to leave to provide support at her home. “We thereafter placed an advert in the local newspaper and interviewed a few applicants. We employed one woman but soon found she was not a fit for our family. Anika and the woman could not form a bond.” After a third attempt, Newton found a nanny who appeared perfect over the first five months. Anika and the nanny bonded immediately, and besides looking after their daughter, the family and even the puppy benefited from her goodness. “In the sixth month, we noticed Anika had withdrawn from her. We installed CCTV cameras to establish what was going on when my husband and I were at work. What we saw shocked us,” said Newton, a chemical engineer. “The nanny had screamed at our daughter, who was then only a year old, and violently picked her up with one hand. To ensure Anika was fed, the nanny took her to the boundary wall where our neighbour’s fierce dog lived and force-fed her while she cried.” After the nanny was fired, their domestic worker of three years, Rosy Dlamini , began to care for the child, while they sought new help around the house. Her twin sister Tuli was later employed and takes care of the couple’s 2-year-old son Urek. The sisters share the household chores. Newton advised parents to treat their nannies as part of the family and not as workers. “Take care of your special people and treat them with respect and in turn they will respect your home and your family. We have become part of each other’s families where our kids have play dates, fostering a family set-up and not a worker, employee relationship.” Newton said she initially chose not to go through an agency as she wanted to have full control over the application process and the recruitment, and the financial aspect had played a role. “It was a daunting task. I was concerned whether the nanny would bond with the child, whether she would fit into our family lifestyle or whether the child would be better off at a crèche.” Newton said she felt more confident after installing CCTV cameras, which they monitored on their cellphones and laptops. “We also get an updated and certified copy of their residential addresses every three months and I ensure I have at least four of their family members’ numbers.” POST