Durban - The search for missing car salesman, Sumeet Singh, ended tragically when detectives found his body at the Gale Street Mortuary, two days after his family reported him missing. KZN police spokesman, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, said the 34 year old's lifeless body was found under a bridge in Morton Road, Rossburgh, with multiple stab wounds to his body, on June 11 around just after 7.30pm. "A  rope was also tied around the deceased's neck. His body was taken to Gale Street Mortuary where it was identified by detectives. " She added that the motive for the killing was unknown. Singh's sister Cheryl Singh said her brother left his Bellair home on June 11, to attend a training session in Pinetown and when he failed to return home that evening, they tried to contact him on his cellphone, but it went directly to voicemail. "We did not suspect anything bad had happened to him so we just waited that night in the hope he may return. "The following morning we received a call from his boss informing us that he did not pitch for work. "Again we tried his cellphone and it went to voicemail." Singh said she became worried because this was unusual behaviour for her brother. "I began calling family and his friends to see if anyone heard from him. "I then went to the Brighton Beach SAPS, and opened a missing persons docket on June 12. "My family and I posted his pictures on social media and Facebook hoping somebody would have seen him." "On Thursday (June 14) our worst fears were made a reality when the detectives informed us that his body was at the mortuary." "When I think about my baby brother. I can't help but think about what he went through and why they had to harm him. Why not take the car instead and leave him." She described her brother, who was unmarried, as a down to earth and free spirited person. Singh said they are praying her brother's killer is found. "It may not bring my brother back, but it will give us some closure knowing his killer is behind bars." A case of murder has been opened. Mbhele said no arrests have been made. POST