Musa Makhunga, president of the Durban Chamber of Commerce, said the city experienced a surge of demand for accommodation, transport, banking, restaurants, catering, and entertainment whenever Comrades was hosted. “Indirect spin-offs for the economy include the show- casing of KwaZulu-Natal’s lush and diverse topography and landscape,” he said. Charles Preece, of the KZN branch of the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa, said hotel occupancy at Durban’s hotels was already at 85%. He said this was the usual occupancy rate for the race. Preece said most people booked accommodation in Pietermaritzburg because of the race being a down run, but Durban would still benefit as people would stay over for at least two days to recover. KZN Athletics president Sello Mokoena said the race was expected to bring in about R335 million. The Comrades Marathon is the city’s second-biggest event after the Durban July, which brings in about R440m. Mokoena said the event was streamed to 110 countries and about six million people watched the 13-hour race. There were about 50 000 radio listeners across 14 stations. Bongani Tembe, spokesperson for the Department of Economic Development, said: “We are ready to assure runners and spectators that they will enjoy themselves when they come to the province.” Tembe said the provincial government valued events like Comrades because it was an important vehicle for promoting tourism and added to the province’s gross domestic product.  Makhunga said international sporting events like the Comrades played a strong role in attracting investment to Durban. “The groundwork has been laid over the years to enhance the possibility of benefit to the local economy regarding attracting tourists and generating employment, including casual jobs over the duration of the sporting event.” Melanie Veness, chief executive of the Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Business, said the race was “a signature event” on Pietermaritzburg’s calendar. “The city is proud to play co-host to this profoundly South African, but world-class, event. The Comrades Marathon brings thousands of visitors to the Pietermaritzburg Midlands area and the economic spin-off is significant for the city, particularly when the race’s start is in Pietermaritzburg. “Visitors spend money on accommodation, food, fuel and other goods, which has a knock-on effect in the economy. The organisers spend a significant amount of the event’s budget with local firms for services like traffic, catering and fencing,” she said. Phindile Makwakwa, Tourism KZN’s acting chief executive, said: “We hope that the cash injection will trickle down to all communities along the 90km route and throughout the province. “With more international athletes competing this year, we hope they will not only enjoy the race, but also take the time to explore our many sites and wonders, from the beach to the Berg,” Makwakwa said. There are 370 more international athletes competing this year compared with last year. International entries number 1430 and 554 are from Africa. More than 21000 runners have registered for this year’s Comrades, a down run from the Pietermaritzburg City Hall to the Moses Mabhida Stadium. Durban metro police said routes would be monitored by CCTV cameras, marshalls, police and a helicopter. “Security personnel will also be deployed along the route,” said metro’s Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad. “Motorists can expect a few traffic delays, congestion and road closures along the route. “We appeal to all motorists to display patience and plan their routes carefully, obey police instructions and heed road closures. Vehicles parked illegally will be towed away, and don’t leave valuables visible inside .” Daily News