This is the premise of Cape Town author Bevan Frank’s first book, The Mind of God, which won the 2018 Indie Reader Discovery Award for Popular Fiction after an announcement at Book Expo America in the US on Saturday. “I came across an article about a mysterious black box, known in the scientific world as a Random Event Generator. I thought that this would be a real and fascinating concept to interweave amid an exciting fictitious thriller plot line,” said Frank. “Part of my aim in setting my thriller in Cape Town was to expose international audiences to Cape Town and South Africa,” he said. Frank said  it was a “great honour” to receive the award and that he was excited for his book to be read as widely as possible after this recognition. “It took me a few years to write the book and the award helps vindicate all the time and effort I spent in creating my novel. “Awards like these are vital for independent authors and show that today new authors can be a force to be reckoned with and can be placed on an equal footing with the more traditionally established household names,” said Frank. He said he had received positive feedback and that South Africans living overseas had told him that the descriptions of the Cape Town locations reminded them of their lives in the city. Frank has a BA degree in English and political studies and a postgraduate LLB degree, both from UCT, and after he qualified as an attorney he opted to become a writer and has worked as a magazine editor, journalist and writer. Three-and-a-half years ago he moved to London along with his wife and three children after he took a job in corporate communications, but he said he had been writing his entire life and discovered a love of writing at Herzlia schools. “When I was in primary school I created some characters and wrote stories about them. I was asked to place my stories in the school library, and that was the start of my creative writing ‘career’. “It was my childhood dream to become an author, and I’ve achieved this with my book. I also grew up writing regular letters to The Argus, and had my first letter published at the age of eight,” he said. Frank was unable to attend the award announcement after he suffered a stroke two weeks ago. “I would have loved to attend, but I’m currently recovering and am not allowed to fly. Who has a stroke in their early 40s?” he said. The Mind of God is available on Amazon. Weekend Argus