Instead, the smell of blood along the hallway, the cries and groans of ailing patients and screaming medical staff were the sights and sounds that met Buthane and her father at the area’s largest - and busiest - public health facility. Taxi driver Satashe Mxatule, 62, was severely injured after he crashed into a shipping container following violent protests along Mew Way and Govan Mbeki Roads in Khayelitsha on Sunday. The pensioner sustained severe trauma to his chest, including several broken bones which punctured his lungs and caused internal bleeding. “He was in so much pain,” Buthane told Weekend Argus. “He was crying, saying he was going to die, there was no one to help him.” When Buthane left her father around midnight that evening after being asked to leave by hospital staff, he had still not been attended to and was seated in the passage of the trauma unit in a state of pain. Shockingly, when the family visited Mxatule 19 hours later, he was still seated where they had left him the night before. “There was a man next to him, he was bleeding and some of the blood had dried up; eventually a young doctor came to look at him. “I immediately jumped up to ask her when my father would be moved to a ward and onto a bed. “She callously said, ‘When the people on beds die and make way.’ I was shell-shocked at her response,” Buthane said. She also took a picture of three severely injured patients lying on the floor of the trauma unit - covered by sheets - in various states of pain. “Imagine having to lie on the floor in this cold winter. The nurses simply do not care,” complained Buthane. On any given day, the hospital is frequented by thousands of patients seeking medical treatment. However, a shortage of medical staff and facilities often results in many ill people not receiving the care they need, or having to wait days for some sort of medical attention. Further, the hospital only has 300 available beds. Health department spokesperson for the Khayelitsha and Eastern Substructure, Sithembiso Magubane, said: “The hospital serves a large surrounding community and experiences high service pressure in the emergency centre with a high number of injuries from interpersonal violence. “It is currently running on an occupancy rate of 130%.” Meanwhile, the Western Cape Department of Health has said that sick patients “chose to sleep on the floor” while waiting to be moved to suitable wards for treatment at the hospital. Magubane also denied any wrongdoing on the hospital’s part, claiming patients are asked to remain seated on the chairs provided. “However, some patients do not heed the request to remain seated and choose to lie down on the floor,” he said.  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za 