As relatives, friends of the six-year-old Stacey Adams and Eastridge residents paid their final respects to the slain child, the girl’s alleged killer confessed, according to a police source. Scores of people gathered at Stacey’s home in De la Rey Street, Eastridge, Mitchells Plain during the funeral service yesterday. The child’s mother, Sasha Adams, broke down crying within minutes of her daughter’s body arriving. Adams’ ex-boyfriend was arrested and was expected to appear in the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court today. The Cape Times has learnt that the suspect, a 25-year-old, confessed that he killed the child because he was angry with her mother for allegedly cheating on him with another man. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the man had previously faced a murder charge for allegedly killing his former girlfriend and stuffing her under his bed in Harare in Khayelitsha. According to the source, that case was withdrawn. Stacey went missing on Saturday and was last seen by her grandmother who reported her missing at Mitchells Plain police station. The child had left her residence to visit her mother in Eastridge. The girl’s naked body was found on Sunday in a shallow grave next to a wheelie bin where her bloodied clothing had been dumped. Yesterday, Muslim prayers and a sombre mood filled the street in which Stacey grew up. The community maintained their support for the family as they were set to march to the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “It’s sad and heartbreaking what happened to her,” funeralgoers were heard whispering before the girl was taken to be buried at the Johnston Road Muslim burial site. Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum spokesperson Faizel Brown said: “It has been a year since the deaths of Stacha Arendse, Courtney Pieters and Renee Roman. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We feel there has been no change in the situation to create a sense of safety for children. We still have a long way to go to make sure our children are safe.”  WATCH: https://www.facebook.com/CapeTimes/videos/1840359589355167/ 