Fourteen properties in this street were purchased between 1974 and 1983 with the aim of a future road scheme project. In a situation reminiscent of the South Road drama, which saw the city council try to evict 26 families to make way for a MyCiTi trunk route connecting Khayelitsha to Wynberg, the affected Maynard Street residents said they learnt about the city council’s plans from a “proposed disposal” notice in newspapers. At the time, the city council’s deputy mayor and mayoral committee member for finance Ian Neilson told Weekend Argus the city council had 
“no further need to own these properties”. The families said they had tried to buy the properties from the city council but their attempts were fruitless. A newspaper advert on November 27, 2015 said the city council wanted to dispose of the houses, which sparked anxiety among the tenants as rumours filled the street that the city council wanted to build a block of flats there. Jerome Izaaks, spokesperson and community leader said he was “cautiously optimistic about the commitment” made by the city council at a meeting held on Thursday. He also said they were concerned about the price tag on the houses as most of the tenants were indigent and mostly pensioners. However, he welcomed the city council’s comment not to evict any of the tenants. “We are glad the city accepted our proposal of a rent-to-buy option, we are also happy that we will now no longer live in limbo,” he said. The state of the houses has also come under fire with residents saying the condition of the houses should be considered before finalising prices. The tenants complained the city council had done nothing to maintain the homes, in spite of leases signed in 2001 that said they “should not make any alterations to the homes without prior written consent of (the city council)”. On Thursday evening the families learnt the city council had abandoned plans to dispose of their homes in lower Gardens. Now, the families who had tried to buy these homes will be given an opportunity to own them after renting from the city council. According to mayoral committee member for assets and facilities management, Stuart Diamond, the city council “will explore the possibility of disposing of the properties below current market value”. Diamond confirmed to Weekend Argus that the tenants had been given assurance “that no one would be evicted”. Those who do not meet the requirements to buy the homes will be offered an option to lease or rent to buy. Maynard Street is home to more than 30 families, including 14 on one side of the road which are city council owned. The rest are privately owned.  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za 