Three Western Cape High Court judges - Pearl Mantame, Mark Sher and André le Grange - heard final arguments on Tuesday in De Lille’s application to have her DA membership restored. She is challenging the constitutionality of the party’s secession clause on which the party relied to fire her last month. RELATED: #DeLille case 'could drag on' Le Grange and Mantame questioned why the DA had not pursued disciplinary charges given the serious allegations against De Lille. Mantame said: “why did you stop the action against Ms De Lille". "You basically set her free with this clause. Yet you are so concerned about the image of the party and the allegations against Ms De Lille hang in the air.” Le Grange also pointed to the DA’s claim that it prided itself on good governance. “But here you have very serious allegations against a senior leader (in the government). Despite all this, the DA goes after Ms De Lille for a radio interview to get rid of her. But the allegations against her still hang in the air,” he said. The DA’s counsel advocate Sean Rosenberg SC hit back, saying: “In those circumstances, it was a rational and political decision taken by the party. There were also additional concerns. But we believe it was a rational decision to terminate her membership.” Rosenberg said the purpose of the clause was to ensure public commitment. “Anybody who publicly declares that she or he intends leaving the DA, can no longer be a member of the DA. It is to protect the party from disloyal members particularly members who occupy high positions,” he said, adding that the party’s constitution was contractual and people joining the party complied with the rules. "The determination of whether a member had made a public declaration of intent to resign, was made by the party’s federal executive. In closing arguments, De Lille’s counsel, advocate Dali Mpofu SC, said the DA’s only intention was to get rid of her. “With all their arguments, it is clear that they only have one goal and that is to get rid of Patricia de Lille the DA has shown clearly their own self-interest in this case.” After the court proceedings, De Lille said she was relieved that the court heard her side of the story. “I respect the decisions of the courts, whatever it may be,” she said. Le Grange reserved judgment, but gave a commitment to deliver judgment before the end of June. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus