Fashion is at the forefront of any young Capetonian hipsters mind but the word has come to represent more with young women operating in the industry hoping for it to have a more ethical and positive stance.  Curve model Charnelle Paulse, 33, wants the fashion industry to be about more than just looks and stardom and says there are compromises that have to be made.  “To go into this industry you really have to be passionate because it seems glamorous but there are sacrifices like eating healthy, exercising and looking after your skin. There’s also competition behind the scenes,” she said.  Paulse said that the most important thing for young women is to have female empowerment and says young women entering into the industry need to ensure they have a positive mind in addition to body positivity.  “I’ve really been thinking about issues around self-esteem, body confidence, girls committing suicide and the MeToo campaign are all things that need to be tackled in the industry and young girls need to be thinking around these things.”  She added: “Most importantly is to be true to yourself and authentic. Remember not to compare yourself to anyone. Comparison is the thief of joy.”  In 2012, Paulse came across an article talking about plus size modelling and immediately she decided to get in touch with the plus size modelling agencies listed in the article.  She is currently the face of Donna, which is the biggest plus size brand in the country.  “I don’t like the term plus size - I prefer curve model because I think when we start to label women it creates those self-esteem issues but I understand why we have plus size and I don’t mind it,” said Paulse.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Fashion writer Sián Eckles, 24, started her own blog Ivy Wolfe after she wanted an outlet for her thoughts on fashion and saw it as an opportunity to express her individual style.  The budding fashionista lacked confidence in her writing but after getting accepted into a journalism course she felt validation.  “I slowly started to realise my potential. You need to know who you are and fashion is not the same for everyone. You learn from different experiences. My style is very comfortable and laissez-faire and really is street style,” she said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Street style has become a contemporary favourite among Cape Town’s younger population.  Eckles warns aspiring fashion writers and bloggers that while the final product might look glamorous there is a multitude of difficulties.  “Young people that want to do a blog they need to realise that it’s not as easy as you might think. It’s not just writing a quick post, it takes forever to design a website go out and take good pictures, have the creative inspiration to write,” said Eckles  Weekend Argus