Cape Town - Veteran British actor Walter van Dyk has over 40 years experience in theatre and film and has been involved in four Olivier award- nominated productions, now the veteran thespian has reprised his roles in the acclaimed play, Shakespeare in Love. While in the city last year Van Dyk noticed that Shakespeare in Love would make its debut at the Fugard Theatre later in the year and he jumped at the opportunity to get involved. “I wanted to see a play that John Kani was doing with Sandra Prinsloo then I saw this and got in touch with Greg Karvellas (director). I went for a reading and he cast me,” said Van Dyk. Written by Lee Hall and adapted from the Academy Award-winning (1999) screenplay by Tom Stoppard and Marc Norman, the comedy ran for an extended sold-out season at the West End's Noel Coward Theatre in London in 2014. The Fugard Theatre presented this South African premiere last year which has now returned. After last year's run van Dyk returned to London and has come back especially to be in the return run. “It’s great to be doing it again. I play Edmund Tilney and Robert de Lesseps who pawns his daughter off for a title and I’m having great fun with it. “In Cape Town you have Maynardville so people are familiar with Shakespeare but it’s kind of interesting to see something about Shakespeare himself and that could be really fascinating for an audience,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.AdChoicesADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads  Van Dyk like many actors has taken roles in previous Shakespeare plays and he admits that while this play is not written by the bard there are similarities. “There’s a similarity in the sense that it’s in the Elizabethan era and the characters are not unlike those you would find in Shakespeare's plays. The comedy follows a young Shakespeare who has writer's block and the deadline for his new play is fast approaching. He finds inspiration in his muse, Viola. This beautiful young woman is Shakespeare’s greatest admirer and will stop at nothing, including breaking the law to appear in his next play. Robyn Scott recently won the Fleur du Cap Theatre Award for Best Performance by a Supporting Actress in a Play for her role as Elizabeth I. The production was also nominated for Best Performance by an Ensemble, Best Lighting Design for Wolf Britz and Best Performance by a Supporting Actor in a Play for Darron Araujo as Henslowe. “It’s a real privilege to have been given the opportunity to work in a production that has received such acclaim and it’s always exciting for any actor to be involved in productions that get recognition,” said van Dyk. Tickets from R150 to R350 can be booked through the Fugard Theatre box office on 021 461 4554 or through the theatre’s website at www.thefugard.com Weekend Argus