Some will be fresh and intriguing. Most will follow the same procedure as last year and the year before. Get ready for seasonal activism. The doek campaigns will start any minute. I am already imagining the Women’s Month messaging fatigue before it even begins. So wrong of me, I should find the positive to focus on. I’ve got to say I look forward to the Power FM women’s line-up among other regulars this month. I’m also holding my breath in anticipation of the women’s summit that my sisters demanded from President Cyril Ramaphosa as they handed him the #TotalShutdown memorandum. I fondly remember a special gathering of women during Penny Lebyane’s days as the Motswako host on SABC2, where 1956 heroes sat around the table with the then minister of home affairs Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. It was quite an experience to sit in one room with Sophie de Bruyn, Ruth Mompati, Bertha Gxowa and others as they related stories of the days leading up to the historic women’s march of August 1956. I wondered even then what it would take for these stories and those of other women who aren’t often in the spotlight to get told in detail. I fantasised about a sit-down series with each of these heroes. Sadly, half the panel that Motswako producer Carol Bouwer had in that room in Pretoria that night are no longer with us. We still have not told their stories. We are still not doing much to ensure these are told. One by one our heroes leave this world and they take valuable pieces of our heritage with them. In the month of women, what women’s content is South Africa consuming across its creative spaces? How much exposure and support are the likes of Thabiso Mahlape of BlackBird Books, Duduzile Mabaso of Black Letter Media, Vangile Gantsho of the newly formed Impepho Press and many others getting? How much business would these young literary creatives I mention get if there had been special commissions to celebrate the likes of Gxowa, Mompati, De Bruyn and others? I’ve written before on my disappointment at the muted manner in which we approached the MaAlbertina Sisulu centenary programme. It is something I had hoped would be prioritised by our film funding bodies, broadcasters and broader art spaces. Where are the documentaries detailing her contribution to the Struggle? Where are the books and essays that speak of this giant as an icon in her own right and not as the wife of Walter Sisulu? This sort of thing would need championing by caring principals. August should be the month in which we are spoilt for choice with regard to creative content that focuses on women. Ideally, this should also be created by women. More importantly, the voice of young women should be given space in all of this. Picture an exhibition of works from young artists depicting their impression of the women’s march. We should give such tasks to qualified curators to execute. Of course, these qualified curators and artists have to be women. The status of the South African story is generally a poor one and this probably has a lot to do with the fact that the arts are not taken seriously at an official level. We still don’t recognise the weight of our stories and our heritage. Women’s Day and the month of August will naturally suffer the same fate as Freedom Day, Sharpeville Day and June 16, where all we get concerned with is the day itself and the stadium event. The rest of the events are forced entrepreneurial gimmicks run mostly by men. It’s as if we are awaiting approval or to borrow Mushavhi’s (Julius Malema’s) phrase, a signal from Mama before we can run things and freely create meaningful women’s content. Until women fight for dedicated space for women’s content, we will continue to lament the same thing. Our mothers were much more than lunch packers for Struggle hero husbands. They too fought and were at the receiving end of atrocities at the hands of the apartheid regime. When are we going to shine a spotlight on these stories? Do we not want to know more about the other women who marched to the Union Buildings? Where are they? Why are we wiping them out of the narrative by ignoring their stories? I watched a beautiful documentary once with a group of women who had travelled by train from Port Elizabeth to Joburg to join the march. There must be more of these stories. I was in my teens when I saw a recording of the play, You Strike a Woman, You Strike a Rock. It was that type of theatre that got me and other young women of my generation to understand the story of the march. Perhaps I should challenge Napo Masheane to take a fresh look at this historical piece and bring it back. I won’t lament the lack of documentaries and films that focus on these women heroes. We failed to deliver in 2016 when we celebrated the 60th anniversary of this landmark event. All we could come up with were statues. Yes, someone in a high office out there loves the idea of statues. Forget your documentaries and biographies. Forget your musicals and art installations. Honestly, we can give the nation much more than is now available. I won’t dare challenge the public broadcaster to commission more works around this theme. It seems they have enough on their plate. But perhaps, when their financial woes are over, they should give Bafta-winning woman film-maker Xoliswa Sithole a call so she can give us a series of documentaries celebrating these ignored heroes. * Masebe is an award-winning actor, a creator and producer of TV and film content. She is the author of The Heart Knows.