Cape Town - For the month of August, the Weekend Argus, in partnership with popular brand Vannie Kaap have been driving a social media and print campaign to find and celebrate some of Cape Town’s heroines. Using the hashtag #SyHerrit, the campaign has been a platform for recognising ordinary women who do extraordinary things in the lives of their communities – often without any recognition for their contributions. More than 300 nominations were received in the run-up to Sunday’s grand prize event at the Radisson RED hotel, with the top 10 nominees being joined by social media influencers for an Instameet - to celebrate and honour some of the city’s homegrown heroines. Through the power of social media, the campaign provided each nominee with a platform for their accolades to be lauded; but in the end, the work of one exceptional woman stood out. Stephanie Benjamin of Steph’s Ladles of Love was the overall winner of the campaign, thanks to her ambition to “feed our nation with love and kindness”. The Belhar-based soup kitchen initiative has been around since 2012 and each month Benjamin and her team of volunteers provide soup for children from the Freedom Park informal settlement, and bread and other essential goods to farms and crèches in the Stellenbosch area. Despite being acknowledged as the woman who embodied the #SyHerrit brand best, Benjamin said she never expected to win an award for her work, which she described as being part of her “humanity”. “When I heard I was nominated, I thanked the universe for using me as a vessel to make a difference in people’s lives. Whether it’s a good word or positive thought you out out, that’s a donation in someone’s life,” Benjamin said. Weekend Argus Saturday editor Jade Otto said the title was proud to be associated with a campaign where women were recognised for being remarkable individuals. “The Weekend Argus is proud to acknowledge phenomenal women who do great things in their spheres of influence - whether online or when no one is watching,” Otto said. “Well done to the winners and well done to all 300 nominees. Their life of service is appreciated.” @Latashia_Naidoo  latashia.naidoo@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus