Kim Kardashian West doesn't like her youngest daughter's name. The 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star agreed to call her seven-month-old daughter, whom was born via surrogate, Chicago to pay homage to her husband Kanye West's hometown, but she has admitted she's not really a fan of the moniker and always shortens it to "Chi" - pronounced "shy" - because it doesn't "flow." Taking to her website KimKardashianWest.com, she said: "Chicago just looks really long to me and doesn't flow, so I call her Chi. That's it, she can decide later if she wants to be called Chicago or Chi. "But like she's so girly. When she first came out I was like what do we name her? It was the hardest decision ever and I could not think of a name."All the other names we had for her, we were going to name her Rei and spell it R-e-i for Kanye's dad Ray and she doesn't look like a Rei. We were going to call her Jo for Mary Jo and have it be Jo West. She doesn't look like a Jo." The couple - who also have North, five, and Saint, two, together - are also at war over Chicago's middle name but Kim took it upon herself earlier this year to announce to the world that the little one had "unofficially" adopted her second moniker, Noel. The 37-year-old star explained: "I haven't really been into middle names but it's like I really wanted a name that was short. A one syllable name. "Noel is my middle name and it's not a one syllable name but it's short. Like I love the name Noel. Kanye does not. So I unofficially instagrammed Chi Noel and I was like I'm doing this because I want her middle name to be Noel." The brunette beauty can also see a lot of herself in Chicago but has admitted she was initially worried that they wouldn't bond because she was born via surrogate. She said: "She's literally my twin, it's crazy. "I think because I was so nervous that having a surrogate I would lose that connection. I swear I was like God is going to be like here is your twin so you feel so connected. Yeah, it's crazy how it works. She's so like teeny and pretty." Bang Showbiz