Kidesh Ramjettan, 37, was standing outside his Engen garage, Glazer Motors, at around 4pm chatting to a customer when an unknown man walked up to him, shot him and ran off with his cellphone in hand. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said Umbilo police station was investigating a case of murder. “No arrest has been made as yet,” Zwane said. Speaking to The Mercury, Ramjettan’s uncle, Prethumb Bechen, said it was unlikely his nephew had any enemies but the family did not want to speculate. “He was such a bubbly and sociable person who loved a good laugh. It would be unlike him to have any enemies. But at this point, we are just leaving it up to the police and concentrating on taking care of the family who is not coping with his death,” he said. The family also made a plea to anyone with information regarding the shooting or the suspect involved to please contact the Umbilo police station. Ramjettan is survived by his wife Lonica - an optometrist from Merebank - and their 2-year-old son, Kiaan. Bechen said his nephew and Lonica had already paid for a holiday to Dubai, planned for next month, to celebrate their wedding anniversary. “He also had his father and mother’s passports with him because he was planning to take them to India. That is the kind of man he was. A loving son, husband and father,” Bechen said. Ramjettan’s father, 80-year-old Balraj Ramjettan, is a well-known businessman who handed over the family fuel station to his youngest son, Kidesh, when he completed high school. Balraj said all three of his sons owned fuel stations in the area. “Kidesh was the baby of the family so we really spoilt him. He was my youngest son but he was such a good son. He would visit his parents every weekend without fail and run errands for us and make sure he took us to the doctor or pharmacy for every little ache we had,” Balraj said wiping away tears. He said he was proud of his son who loved his customers and would walk on to the forecourt daily to greet them. When The Mercury visited the Glazer Motors Engen station yesterday, it was business as usual but a sombre mood lingered in the air. Regular customers visited the garage to offer their condolences to the staff and management and one of the managers became tearful while talking to customers. The family said Ramjettan’s funeral would be held at the Clare Estate Crematorium at 3pm on Saturday as they awaited his eldest brother, Anesh, who was returning from China. The Mercury