The local social media brand was first launched in 2015, and has since grown exponentially from a memes page to an online store and last year to a physical store selling VK merchandise. Vroumens is the latest feature to their growing stable, which “engages a predominantly coloured female audience Content that is aimed at empowering women. The beta launch of Vroumens was recently completed and focused solely on female relevant memes and a few items. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A wider array of Vroumens content, events and initiatives will soon be added as this important division of Vannie Kaap continues to grow,” said a spokesperson for the Vannie Kaap team. Jaimey-Ann Dyers, a writer for Vannie Kaap, joined in January. She writes for Vroumens and is one of six women who work for the company. While most people know Vannie Kaap for their funny “sê goed”, the brand is also big on empowering women in the workplace, which is evident as the majority of staff are women. Dyers, 19, from Parow, who is completing a Bachelor of social science degree, is majoring in politics and economics at UCT. She juggles work and her studies and admin at VK. “I am someone who, once I do something I must be passionate about it. I thought this was one of the best platforms for me, as there is a lot going on about identity and this brand celebrates that. It shares in my vision of that being celebrated.” She said she enjoyed studying and working. “I love to wake up knowing that I have a purpose. I must say thanks to this company for allowing me to grow. “They have given me so muchto do and it is allowing me to utilise all my strengths. It has really been a wonderful journey for me,” she said. Working for a company that has so many women is also empowering said Dyers. “You come to work and you see all these beautiful women. Although we have job titles, every person plays a special role in the magic . “What I love is that they go the extra mile. They do whatever it takes to make sure that everything is sorted and that is really inspiring to me,” she said. She sees herself growing within the company as it continues to grow. Her advice to women is: “You are strong and love yourself. Whatever space you are in, dominate it.” Her colleague Amanda Anthony, 29, from Penlyn Estate, is in charge of public relations and marketing, said through VK, she would be able to complete her studies next year. The single mom with two children, said she started working with VK last year. “When they started branching out on social media and they needed a consultant. I studied communications - I have not obtained my degree as yet.” She said everybody chips in where they were needed. “We are looking to launch new endeavours. With networking skills and being talkative - I have a very versatile personality - they loop me in whenever,” she said. She said she was instrumental in building a contact base for VK. “The best part about being part of this team is that I am not stagnant. There is more than one thing I can do. I have many jobs, but with VK I am building a career,” she said. Being a single mom, working for VK and the flexibility that comes with it, has made it easier for her. She said she definitely sees herself growing in the industry and advised women that perseverance was key to achieving success. “Don’t limit yourself. Slow progress is still progress.” Kay-lee Groenewald, 26, from Bellville is the person responsible for the printing for merchandise. Groenewald took on the position in June and said she loved every minute of it. She was first involved in the printing industry three years ago. “Everyday there is something new to do here. No day is the same and you get to meet people who come in.” She said she was proud when she saw people walking around with T-shirts or other merchandise she printed. Laughing, she said when her friends and family found out she was working for Vannie Kaap they wanted to “koppel” (score) free merchandise from her. Her advise to women is that anything is possible. “You can achieve anything you put your mind to if you work hard.” When you walk into the Vannie Kaap store, the first people you would see is either Danelle Rossouw or Lauren Martin, who both manage sales in-store. Rossouw, 19, from Blackheath said she started working for Vannie Kaap in April and was taking a gap year from her industrial and organisations psychology studies at the University of the Western Cape. “It is so nice working here. When you wake up in the morning and you come to work and you have people coming in laughing. It creates such a fun atmosphere to be in. Here you just get to be yourself. You can come in saying “awe ma se kind”. She says: “Being a woman you can do anything and everything.” Weekend Argus