Cape Town - The City of Cape Town has condemned the recent spate of attacks on staff at a number of community clinic's in and around the city. This follows the most recent attack at the Site B Youth Clinic in Khayelitsha on July 19, 2018, where members of staff were robbed of their belongings at gunpoint. Councillor Anda Ntsodo, mayoral committee member for Area East, on a visit to the clinic this morning, said brazen criminals in the area had stolen cellphones, purses and handbags from staff, clients and even from security guards at the facility. "Our health professionals are the people we go to when we are unwell and need assistance. We trust the nurses and doctors with our lives and with the lives of our most vulnerable, namely, our children and our elderly." As a result of the attacks, staff have been unable to perform their duties and facilities have had to be closed. "The consequences are life-threatening to entire communities who cannot access health services," Ntsodo said. She added that those who had tried to resist were threatened, assaulted and left severely traumatised. The City has provided counselling to those affected, however, Ntsodo said these incidents continue to have a long-term impact on morale. "Some (affected staff) have requested transfers to other sites and even the permanent closure of the clinic. This leads to a direct impact on services rendered to the community.These men and women are dedicated to serving their communities." Ntsodo added that a number of proposals to improve safety and security are under consideration. "The City’s mandate is to make healthcare available to all its residents, but the community has a role to play in terms of vigilance and safety concerns. I implore the community to work with us to identify these thugs and bring them to book. They are putting the health and safety of an entire community at risk. Remember that health facilities are gun-free zones, so let us join hands and spread the awareness," said Ntsodo. @capetimes  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times