The Duchess of Sussex's estranged half-sister has lashed out at her once again for reportedly "pretending" to make the effort with their father Thomas Markle. The 37-year-old royal - who was known as Meghan Markle until she got married almost three months ago - hasn't spoken to her dad since she tied the knot with her husband Prince Harry in May and her sibling Samantha Markle is fuming that people close to her have been claiming that she's planning to visit Thomas in the near future. Speaking to The Sun newspaper, Samantha said:  "I speak to him every day and it’s sad but, no, they have not contacted him. The PR machines can stop trying to make out she’s making an effort — she is not. This is a heartbreaking time for him and I’m very sad watching my sister ignore him." The dig comes just days after Samantha wished Meghan a happy birthday on August 4 before urging her to send a "belated" card to their father for his on July 18. She wrote: "Happy Birthday Meg! It would be so lovely and appropriate of you to send DAD a BELATED birthday card for his July 18th @KensingtonRoyal Cheers!" Meghan's father, who colluded with the paparazzi to sell pictures of himself before their wedding, lashed out at Harry and his daughter in an interview last month, claiming they have cut him out of their lives and Meghan owes him for everything. He fumed: "I refuse to stay quiet. What riles me is Meghan's sense of superiority. She'd be nothing without me. I made her the duchess she is today. Everything that Meghan is, I made her. "I was having my good years then, making good money, and could afford to give her the best, with a good school, good education, good home. She became the woman that she is today thanks to everything I did for her. And did I get any recognition for it? Any thanks? She doesn't even speak to me now. How cold is that?" The public feud has led to the former 'Suits' actress leaning on her sister-in-law Duchess Catherine - who was known as Kate Middleton before she married Prince William - for support because she's at her "wits' end" with her father. An insider explained: "Kate's well aware of what Meghan is going through. Her family has been dragged through the tabloids and she knows it's not nice. She's made a big effort to be kind to Meghan and look out for her. "Kate's made a real effort to be kind to Meghan and to include her. They're quite different characters but they get along well." Bang Showbiz