She made the plea while testifying in mitigation of sentence following sentencing proceedings. Brady was found guilty on one count of fraud and of contravening the Public Finance Management Act last month for falsely claiming she was acting on behalf of the Western Cape government in appointing Lelethu Properties and Developers to build 33 RDP housing for more than R3 million in the Malibu area in Blue Downs in 2006. Lelethu’s Faizel Davids asked the court to hand down a sentence that carried a jail term and included financial compensation for his losses. In reports by correctional services and a social worker, it was found Brady was a suitable candidate for house arrest. During her testimony, a sobbing Brady told the court she recognised that she had done wrong by signing a letter dated December 22, 2006 which stated: “... it is further confirmed that I, Wilma Brady, chairperson: Oostenberg Subcouncil 21, on behalf of the provincial housing department, appointed Lelethu Properties and Development to develop the serviced land as set out above.” She said she was remorseful about the consequences that arose from the letter, stating her life had not been the same since then. She also claimed that Davids had attempted to offer her “bribes” in the form of R300000 in cash to secure the tender. Brady said when that failed, he offered her a BMW vehicle and, later, marble-top kitchen cupboards. “There was a point where Faizel would walk into my house with money in bags; the money never bothered me, whether it was R50000 or R90000; it was naïve of me not to go to the police,” she said. “I am remorseful that I signed that letter, for the 33 families attached to that who went through a lot, as well as my family, which suffered in consequence of this.” Asked what sentence she wanted the court to hand down, Brady said: “I don’t see myself being in jail.” She said on two occasions, bodyguards had been assigned to protect her and her family after threats against her life were made. She alleged that, although she never alerted police about it, a “hitman” had informed her that Davids had paid him R20000 to “take out” her entire family. Davids denied being behind the alleged threats against Brady’s life. He told the court he and his family had suffered financially as a result of building the houses. He had lost six houses he owned in Blue Downs, four sports shops and a penthouse in Bloubergstrand when he could no longer pay his creditors. He testified that he used his own money to build all 33 houses. Each home cost R95000 to build, and he was only paid R1.3 million by the government after he bulldozed one of the structures. “I never built those houses (intending) not to be compensated; the accused is the one that orchestrated everything, yet she never once showed remorse for the fact that I lost everything by giving me that fraudulent letter - which led me to build the houses,” he said. “I ask the court for financial compensation, I am a 51-year-old who is unemployed with no matric... it is tough out there.” The court will sentence Brady, 60, a mother of three, on September 4. Weekend Argus