Cape Town - The Fish Hoek Community Policing Forum (CPF) has asked that people not speculate on three cases currently under investigation by the police. A case of murder has been opened after a body was discovered in Macassar, a separate case of armed robbery is also being investigated, and a missing persons docket has been opened. "The Fish Hoek Community Police Forum (CPF) hereby confirms that a missing person case has been registered at Fish Hoek SAPS for Mr. Rob Sonnekus, a resident of Sun Valley. Mr Sonnekus’ vehicle was discovered on Monday in Mitchells Plain. A case of possession of stolen property has been opened with Mitchells Plain SAPS and three people have been arrested in connection with the stolen vehicle and other items," the Fish Hoek CPF said. "A case of armed robbery has also been registered with Fish Hoek SAPS and one individual has been arrested in connection with this case. "Furthermore, an unidentified body was found in Macassar and a murder docket has been opened and is currently being investigated. "The Fish Hoek CPF would like to stress that there are three active police investigations under way and we would like to remind the public that the SAPS are under no obligation to release any information related to an active investigation to the public. Doing so could also jeopardise any investigations. "The Fish Hoek CPF would once again like to appeal to the public to please not entertain or spread unconfirmed stories and to at all times keep in mind that there are friends and family that may be affected by what you say. "It is only through our partnership with the Fish Hoek SAPS that we have been allowed to release the above information. We would also like to repeat our earlier statement, that at the moment, and with the information currently at hand, that this incident appears to be isolated and there is no known threat to the wider community. "We would also like to assure the public that the cases are receiving the attention they deserve and the CPF, based on the information that has been relayed to us, is confident that our local SAPS as well as the other stations, are doing their utmost to piece the cases together. This is an incredibly complex series of events and we urge the public to allow the SAPS members to do their jobs," the CPF said. @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times