Arthur Mabentsela, who has a Master’s in engineering, and works in the Department of Chemical Engineering, made comments which included an attack on women who used the phrase “#MenAreTrash”, intended to expose incidents of sexual abuse and violence. Mabentsela said the phrase was used by women unable to attain a “quality man”. Mabentsela advised women to: “Close your legs and open your ears (and) listen when a real man talks. But just check all the hoes (sic) gonna jump and defend their trash ways.” When he received a response to his post explaining the phrase #MenAre Trash was intended to raise awareness around sexually abused women and children, he responded by defending abusive men: “Some of those men are suffering from depression. When I was depressed I had thoughts of raping my own two-year-old. I wanted to kill her. I saw nothing in her. There was no love.” Mabentsela had another post in which he called people of colour the K-word and said they were weak, and were snitches he wouldn’t rely on for protection in any instance. According to Mabentsela’s academic profile, he completed a Master’s degree in engineering at Stellenbosch University and completed his honours in engineering at UCT. When contacted on the matter, Mabentsela answered his office phone at UCT and said he could not comment on the matter as it had become a university matter. Democratic Alliance Students Organisation chairman Neo Mkwane said they were appalled and shocked at Mabentsela’s actions and were calling for his immediate termination from UCT. “His behaviour has not only brought the good name of UCT into disrepute, but he has displayed a sickening lack of respect and regard for women, I will seek advice into a possible case with the SA Human Rights Commission on various grounds,” said Mkwane. The Black Academic Caucus, usually vocal on issues of transformation and the advancement of black academics at UCT declined to comment on the matter “due to an internal disciplinary matter currently being handled by the university”. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said Mabentsela was not lecturing any students at present, and had been informed of the formal process. Moholola said the lecturer was not teaching any students at present and Mabentsela had been informed of the formal process. “The content of the post is grave, unacceptable and disturbing, and completely out of alignment with UCT values. “The university introduced due process to look into the matter and will ensure that it’s properly investigated and dealt with,” said Moholola. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus