Cape Town - Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer has expressed concern following reports of learner abductions in the Zonnebloem (former District 6) area. "I have received reports from our District Officials that two separate incidents of abductions have reportedly taken place in the Zonnebloem area over the past two weeks. Learners are reportedly being targeted while travelling to and from school," Schafer said. According to the WCED, reports indicate that perpetrators have been drugging learners and abducting them, one reporting the involvement of a white van. "We have reported these incidents to SAPS, Cape Town. In addition, the District Social Worker has issued communication to schools in the area," Schafer added. She said that a social worker had visited both schools where the alleged incidents occurred, to investigate the reported incidents and provide support. Schools in the Zonnebloem area and surrounds will also be engaging with parents to raise awareness. Meanwhile, learners are being told to be extra vigilant when travelling to and from school, and to travel in groups where possible. "We have requested SAPS to increase visibility in the Zonnebloem area. We will also place these cases on our Watching Brief system to monitor progress.  These perpetrators must be found and charged," said Schafer. Western Cape police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said that the police in the province have noted the reports of a “series of child abductions that took place in the past two weeks in the Zonnebloem area”. "On the policing front we are part of the Safer Schools Programme with the Department of Education that looks into safety issues around schools. In addition, we are in constant communication with schools in the province. "As part of our policing initiatives, patrols are held around schools in the Cape Town area, including Zonnebloem. In winter we step up our operations to start at 04:00 in the morning as learners get to school while it is still dark. The operations continue in the afternoon after school. The SAPS with other roleplayers including the scholar patrols (Traffic Services) work towards ensuring safety of learners on a continuous basis," said Rwexana. She added that the police regard abductions and other crimes against school children in a serious light. "We urge those with information about the above cited cases to report them immediately. It is our objective to investigate in order to bring the perpetrators to book. We advise learners and parents to be vigilant at all times on their way to and from school. SAPS patrols and operations will continue in the area in an effort to ensure visibility." Any incidents should be reported to the SAPS immediately. Learners, parents and teachers are advised to contact the Safe Schools Call Centre on 0800 45 46 47 for advice, counselling and support. @capetimes  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times