Cape Town - The Joint Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) is wrapping up its public hearings into land expropriation without compensation this week in the Western Cape. The final day of the hearings will be on Saturday, at the Friends of God Church in Goodwood, Cape Town, from 11am until 4pm. The Western Cape hearings kicked off on Wednesday in Oudtshoorn. The CRC next moves to Beaufort West on Thursday. "The Joint Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) will next week wrap up its provincial public hearings with both delegations holding hearings in the Western Cape," Parliament said in a statement. "The committee also announced a bigger venue for the final day of its hearings. "The committee decided to change the venue for the final provincial leg of the public hearings in order to accommodate as many people as possible in one venue. The new venue for the final provincial public hearings programme on Saturday, 4 August 2018, attended by the full committee complement, will now be at the Friends of God Church in Goodwood, Cape Town. "On Wednesday, a delegation will start with public hearings in Oudtshoorn before it moves to Beaufort West the next day. The other delegation will hold public hearings in Citrusdal on Thursday and in Swellendam on Friday. "The committee was instructed by the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces to ascertain whether a review of section 25 of the Constitution and other clauses are necessary, to make it possible for the state to expropriate land in the public interest without compensation, and propose the necessary constitutional amendments where necessary. "The committee already held hearings in all provinces," Parliament said. Here are the Western Cape venues and times: Thursday, August 2, 2018: Central Karoo District Municipality Beaufort West Local Municipality Venue: Recreational Hall (Beaufort West) Time: 11am-4pm West Coast District Municipality Cederberg Local Municipality Venue: Citrusdal Thusong Centre (Citrusdal) Time: 11am-4pm Friday, August 3, 2018: Overberg District Municipality Swellendam Local Municipality Venue: Swellendam Thusong Centre Swellendam Time: 11am-4pm Saturday, August 4, 2018: City of Cape Town Cape Town Metro Venue: Friends of God Church, Cnr of Frans Conradie and Vasco Boulevard, Goodwood Time: 11am-4pm @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times