The decision was made yesterday at the standing committee on human settlements after a gruelling session with the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform. “I am beyond elated that our fight for justice for the District Six land claimants will finally bear fruit. After 20 long years, we can finally restore justice and dignity to the residents of our province who were forcibly removed from their land under the apartheid regime,” said chairperson of the committee Matlhodi Maseko. Maseko said the provincial department would begin liaising with the National Treasury regarding the transfer of the budget for the District Six land restitution housing programme. Through Maseko’s relentless efforts in seeking a solution to the grounding of the phase 3 building project, the committee and the department reached an agreement. “I must commend the members of the standing committee on human settlements, the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform and the provincial Department of Human Settlements for their collaboration. “Today was an example of what can be achieved for the people when politicking is set aside and the people’s interests are put first.” The committee initially wanted Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane to answer questions about the current status of District Six or face being subpoenaed. “Within the next two weeks, the provincial Department of Human Settlements will arrange a meeting with the relevant stakeholders including the City, the Human Development Agency and the National Department of Rural Development and Land Reform about the transfer,” Maseko said. But it wasn’t all good news: District Six advocacy groups the District Six Working Committee and the District Six Reference Group, as well as a few claimants, were ordered to leave the chambers to allow the department to discuss particulars of an ongoing court case the department is currently involved in with the District Six Working Committee. The working committee has labelled the latest move a political tactic. “This is serious politicking and electioneering; surely input from us would’ve added value to the decision. We came to the meeting because we believe someone should be held accountable for the blunder in D6,” said chairperson of the committee Shahid Ajam. Ajam is questioning how the committee can make a decision like this. “They are passing the buck and no one wants to take responsibility. It’s a sick joke and an insult to the people of D6.” @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus