Her businessman father and brother, as well as their firm’s accountant, were slapped with 382 charges relating to fraud, forgery and failing to submit income tax returns. Thomas Fortuin, 66, Tom-Ross Fortuin and bookkeeper Ivor Carolissen all entered into a plea agreement with the State at the Cape Town Magistrates’ Court on Thursday. They admitted to using their business and corporations, known as GDO Distributors, Sontala Wholesalers, Retail 4 CC, and Fortuin Investments CC to fraudulently claim money back from the Sars. Tammy-Anne, who grew up in Paarl, was first runner-up for Miss SA in 2002 and currently lives in Los Angeles in the US, where she is a writer, director and actor known for the films Meeting Jenny (2015), Dying to Live (2016), Aimee (2016) and Babalas (2013).  According to court documents, Tammy-Anne was the sole owner of GDO Distributors but signed over Power of Attorney in February 2008, appointing Tom-Ross to conduct the business and its taxes. In their plea agreement, the father and son admit they falsely submitted documents to SARS in order to get refunds. Tom-Ross was ordered to pay back R615 592 to Sars, which he did this month. The trio was busted when a Sars investigator began tracing their crimes between September 2008 and November 2011. They used forged purchase agreements, invoices and delivery notes to justify claims to Sars. At the time, Thomas Fortuin was insolvent and his ability to trade was restricted, and he used his family and closed corporations to enrich himself, according to the NPA. Fortuin, who faced 236 charges, was sentenced to an effective three years in jail. Fortuin took off his tie and gave it to his son before being led away to jail by court orderlies. Carolissen, who faced 167 charges, was sentenced to four years behind bars which was suspended for five years. Tom-Ross, who faced 83 charges was sentenced to four years, wholly suspended for five years. Both Tom-Ross and Carolissen further received 18 months correctional service which includes house arrest and community service of four hours a week for failing to submit income tax returns. Daily Voice