Cape Town - It's just one week to go before entries for the world's largest timed cycle race open for the 2019 edition. Cape Town Cycle Tour entries open on Thursday, September 6, and the tour organisers have again adopted a first-come-first-served entry system for next year's race. “Entries for the Cape Town Cycle Tour are capped at 35 000, which is the limit for safety and logistical reasons,” said David Bellairs, Director for the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust, as he this week outlined the entry programme for the 2019 event. “It’s a mammoth undertaking and one that over the years, despite international acclaim and popularity, has remained true to its roots – continually promoting cycling and the interests of cyclists while maintaining a real ‘heart’ for the community.” The next Cape Town Cycle Tour will take place on Sunday, 10 March 2019 and the start will again be from the historic Grand Parade Precinct. The entry process will roll out in phases to eliminate the super-fast sell-out and potential of overloading the system of some years past. Paid-up Pedal Power Association members (R510 per entry), Club21 members (R540 per entry) and cyclists who have ridden 9 or more races (R540 per entry) will have the opportunity to enter between Monday, 27 August and Monday 3 September. “We have done it this way to award loyal supporters of the event. Charity Group applications also opened on 27 August,” said Bellairs. Cyclists who are not members of the PPA or have completed less than 9 Cycle Tours and are not riding in a special Charity group can enter online at www.capetowncycletour.com on Thursday, 6 September 2018. Entries will be allocated on a first come, first served basis and will close once the limit has been reached, or on Saturday, 20 October at 4pm, whichever occurs first. Tier 1: PPA (R510), Club 21 (R540), more than 9 Cycle Tours (R540) Entries open: Monday, 27 August Entries close: Monday, 3 September or when entry totals have been reached. Tier 2 – General Entries Entries open: Thursday, 6 September 2018 Entries close: Saturday, 20 October 2018 or when entry totals have been reached. Charity Group Applications Entries open: Monday, 27 August Entries close: TBC Keep up to date with Cape Town Cycle Tour developments by liking their Facebook Page at www.facebook.com/cycletour or by following them on Twitter at @CTCycleTour or on Instagram @ctcycletour.  For any event queries, or assistance with entries, please contact the Cycle Tour Events Office during office hours on 087 820 7223 or visit www.capetowncycletour.com.  @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus