Brand will move to his new position by September 1, taking over from Vusi Pikoli following his appointment last Thursday. Since its inception in 2014, the office has dealt with around 1 600 complaints of which, according to a provincial report, 22 came from Khayelitsha stations over the 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 periods. The former Khayelitsha cluster commander said he had applied for the position because of his belief that police officers should be accessible to the residents they serve. “I considered this position because it is not a total divorce with the police service; one will be in constant contact with the police, ensuring that relations between police and the community improve. It is only a shift from an operational police member to more of a person who ensures that service is delivered,” he said. “Most of my career I was in a detective environment. When I left that I started with community-orientated policing, involving the community in the fight against crime, gangsterism in Mitchells Plain and vigilante killings in Khayelitsha. “I have also been working with NGOs and met with very influential community and religious leaders. The networks that have been created through my work in the service will help with my new responsibilities. “And I think the biggest experience I will take is the integrity to deal with community complaints and come up with solutions, combining that with knowing the rules and regulations of the police service, on how processes should be followed so that we can ensure that the proper service should be given to communities.” Brand said of the many challenges facing policing, it was time to change the way crime fighting was viewed, with more emphasis placed on community involvement. “Policing or crime is no longer just a police problem anymore, we have environmental designs, informal settlements created without proper infrastructure where you find ladies having to walk sometimes for kilometres to toilets just to relieve themselves. To me there are a lot of outside factors that influence policing. “You also need to look at staffing levels; you look at the public service commission’s report that was released. But then we have other challenges; we are sitting with a gangsterism problem that has been coming along for years and then we have corruption within policing, which is also a major problem. “If we can go back to the years of street committees, where you protect your own streets and then you have a block committee also that deals with crime. The reality is criminals are in the minority, we need an approach where everyone works together to fight against crime. For example, if we increase the resources in an informal settlement by allocating more vehicles to the area, the reality is vehicles cant access all the roads in an informal settlement - how will that reduce crime? The way to do so will be to take out the criminals who are causing havoc in those areas.” He said one of his first tasks would be to embark on awareness campaigns to make communities aware of the services they provide. “There is a need to make a lot more people aware of the services offered by the office of the ombudsman. We’ll need to have awarenkess campaigns, meet with communities and I have already established networks, especially in the townships where one should meet with and educate people on how to register complaints and the types of complaints that are investigated. “I’m also looking forward to ensuring that the service to communities in the province improves but what I’m looking forward to the most is to have a first weekend off, I can’t remember when last I did not work a weekend.” Weekend Argus