Cape Town - It's never wrong to do the right thing, as the famous saying goes, and a group of youngsters from an impoverished township in Athlone, Cape Town, took it to heart. Having come across City of Cape Town property at the side of a road near Vygieskraal, close to Rylands, on Sunday, the group of five young children took it upon themselves to wheel the abandoned sprinkler trailer to the hockey field close to Vygieskraal Stadium, from whence it was stolen. A woman who saw the children pushing the trailer, she acted as an escort, waving a red t-shirt to alert passing motorists to the young do-gooders. "The City's Law Enforcement Rapid Response Team had their hearts stolen by 5 young children and an intrepid lady," the City of Cape Town's law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said. "The team responded to a call out on 12 August 2018 of suspects stealing a ladder at Vygieskraal stadium. Unfortunately the suspects had already left the area with the ladder when they arrived. "The officers drove around to check the local scrap yards when they came across a lady who informed them that she and a group of young boys had found a water sprinkler trailer used at the City's sportsfields. "The thieves, probably disturbed during the night while carting it off to be cut up for scrap, had left it along the side of the road. The young boys were eager to immediately return the misappropriated trailer to the local hockey field where it was stolen from. "The lady walked behind them waving a red tee shirt as a danger flag for passing motorist and the officers followed in their vehicle with flashing emergency lights to protect them all. "The unusual cavalcade reached its destination safely and the security guard confirmed it was City property and was stolen during the course of the night. The officers thanked the lady and the aspiring crime fighters for a job well done. "It is most encouraging to see this type of  co-operation from members of the community and it augurs well for the future if young people like these individuals, marshalled by a lady determined to make a difference in her community are prepared to roll up there sleeves and get involved in the fight against crime," Dyason said. @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times