On Tuesday, grieving family members of Sandra November, 48, were preparing for her burial. Sandra was rushed to Hanover Park Day Hospital on Sunday after complaining of shortness of breath. She was later transferred to Groote Schuur Hospital where she passed away. Family and friends say Sandra’s health took a turn for the worse after Shasha vanished outside her Groenall Walk home in Hanover Park on 3 May 2015. The little girl, who was in Grade 1 at Belmore Primary School, has never been seen again. The family suffered more distress in May last year, when Shasha-Lee’s father, Calvin November, was arrested at a vigil for drugs and ammunition. Mayor Patricia de Lille offered a R25 000 reward for the child’s safe return at the time. They say just last week, Sandra told family members she longed for the return of her daughter, Shasha-Lee, whom she fondly called Meisie. Missing Sandra, who had suffered a stroke shortly after Shasha went missing, used a wheelchair when she needed to travel or walk far distances. Sandra had six children aged between six and 31 years old. Her eldest son, Apostle Fabian Williams, 27, of Inter Mizpah Gospel Mission Church, says his mother was rushed to hospital after she had trouble breathing. “She had shortness of breath and water on the lungs. She had a heart attack. She died at Groote Schuur Hospital,” he said. Bishop Reverend William Delaney, who is arranging the funeral, says Sandra’s health deteriorated after Shasha-Lee disappeared. “She was longing for her daughter and this caused her health to go down,” he said. Apostle Fabian adds his mother would often stand outside their home, longing for her child to come back. “She just said last week she wishes her Meisie would come back home because she would always bring her cake,” he says. Remains He says the family still has no closure on what happened to Shasha-Lee. Outside the family’s home, a poster of Shasha-Lee remains pasted on the front wall. If you have any information on her whereabouts, please contact www.pinkladies.org.za on 072 214 7439 or 086 680 0490.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice