The study also found relatively high rates of sexual violence “committed by teachers and experienced by two out of 10 primary school learners and one out of 10 high school learners.” The baseline report, which focused on 24 schools and was compiled by the Human Sciences Research Council, found that pupils aged 10-13 experience more violence than high school pupils. The report added that the level of sexual violence prevalent at schools included “intimate partner violence in heterosexual sexual and dating relationships”. The research aims to provide in-depth information for NGOs working in the schools and sexual violence among learners. Lead researcher Dr Ingrid Lynch said there was a culture of silence that accompanied these forms of violence, and the inclination by the young pupils to “normalise it”. She added: “We found that there are high levels of violence. What was quite striking is that younger learners are very vulnerable. “We’ve got this perception that younger learners are not necessarily in relationships, but the 10-13-year age group, when they are in a relationship, actually have a high risk of violence. “We find that with that age group, the experiences of violence were higher than the high school learners. It is somewhat surprising, but it does match research findings in other parts of the country and around the world.” In primary schools, 48% of learners reported that in the last 12 months, if they had been in a relationship, they had experienced violence in the relationship, in contrast to 22% of high school learners who experienced violence in their relationships. She said some of the relationships between primary school learners were sexual. Lynch said 35% of the learners were victims of sexual violence. High school learners recorded the same percentage in the same offence. “The definition of sexual violence is either being forced to have sex out of fear; forced to have sex out of guilt; or forced to perform a humiliating or shameful sexual act,” Lynch said. Breaking the sexual violence down, she said 14% of high school pupils had sex out of fear and 17% had sex out of guilt. High school pupils forced to perform humiliating or shameful acts were put at 10% at high schools. She said that 20% percent of primary school pupils had sex out of fear, while those who had sex out of guilt comprised 23%. Pupils forced to perform humiliating or shameful acts were recorded at 23% for primary schools. The victims were predominantly young girls in both primary and high schools. Asked by researchers if they had reported the sexual violence acts, the learners told them they did not think it was wrong at the time of the incidents. “When you compare primary and high school learners, fewer primary schools indicated that they reported (incidents). We asked them why not. A big percentage of them said they didn’t feel what happened to them was wrong. It’s quite problematic that they normalise violence,” Lynch said. Lynch added: “In terms of recommendations flowing from these findings, I think it’s important to emphasise that sexual violence in younger learners’ dating relationships is typically overlooked in interventions done in schools and also in sexuality education offered through the Life Orientation curriculum. “There is an assumption that they are ‘too young’ to be in relationships and this encourages silence around problems that might occur when they do in fact have relationships. “Schools need to start focusing on early intervention with primary school learners where they equip them with relationship skills and encourage them to challenge harmful gender norms. Most interventions focus on older adolescents.“ “The baseline results revealed that violence is commonplace and occurs mostly in classrooms, on sports fields, or in bathrooms,” the report said. Weekend Argus