'We just want to talk, come out Adam, the sky is blue, the weather is nice, k*****s are all over the place.” These were the words that Ekurhuleni EFF members shouted outside Adam Catzavelos’s Edenvale home yesterday. They said they had “visited” the residence to send a message to him following a racist video in which he apparently used the k-word to refer to black people. “It is important for us to be here because we have seen racism raising its ugly head a number of times. “We want to tell and show Adam and other whites that racism has no place in our democratic society,” said Fani Sibeko, the EFF’s Ekurhuleni PR councillor. He said they received a tip-off from the security guards in the area that Catzavelos was in the house, as they had seen him in the morning. Despite the shouting and picketing at the gate, no one came out of the house nor was there any sound or movement. There was just a white BMW parked in the yard. EFF members left placards at his gate with messages such as “Adam, jou pink * **s”, “our democracy has no space for racists like Adam” and “Adam where are you, go back to Greece, you pig”. A white neighbour, who declined to be named, expressed her solidarity with the party’s protest. “It is important for everyone to stand against racism and it’s no longer acceptable to just be quiet,” she said. Edenvale police were also at the scene and by lunchtime their presence started increasing swiftly. The party was then instructed to disperse as they were contravening the “gathering act”. Sipho Watkins, EFF Ekurhuleni secretary, said he was confident that they had sent out a message to Catzavelos and other racists. “We came and did what we needed to do. The message has been sent and he knows not to mess with black people,” added Watkins. On Wednesday, the EFF’s Gauteng branch opened a case against Catzavelos at the Bramley police station. “The case was registered in Bramley but the matter occurred in Greece,” said national police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili. “It will be taken from the police station level to provincial, then head office and then Interpol, who will liaise with Greece and, from that point on, more investigations will be done based on Greece’s findings." However, Verlie Oosthuizen, head of social media law at the firm, Shepstone & Wylie, said it would be difficult to lay criminal charges against Catzavelos. “While his utterances are certainly repugnant and deeply insulting and hurtful, they are not at this stage criminal. Discriminatory speech on the basis of race is not a criminal offence,” said Oosthuizen. “There can be legal consequences outside of criminal law for Mr Catzavelos. However, I do not think that there are criminal charges which can be brought against him.” Oosthuizen added that it would be challenging to prosecute Catzavelos for crimen injuria. “I do not think that the video satisfies this legal definition as it was not directed at a particular individual with the intention of impairing his or her dignity.” Catzavelos’s video was apparently first posted on a private WhatsApp group, and was circulated by a member of the group offended by its content. The Joburg businessman’s personal details such as his home and work address, cellphone number, ID number and his children’s school address were leaked. This was unacceptable, said Oosthuizen. “This particular type of scenario is known as ‘doxing’ and is not acceptable, particularly when the personal information of his children is revealed. When the Protection of Personal Information Act is fully enforced, then there may be sanctions for this type of behaviour and it will be unlawful. "There can be no doubt that the comments and video Catzavelos made are odious and unacceptable. However, there are legal mechanisms that can be used for the public to show their displeasure." Oosthuizen added that the sharing of personal information about a person online could lead to intimidation and violence against that person or his family. “This is dangerous and should be completely discouraged." The SA Human Rights Commission confirmed that Catzavelos would be investigated. The  Saturday Star