All of the kids are refugees - people who have to leave their home countries to escape danger, such as war or a natural disaster. They were playing as part of a camp that gives them a chance to improve their soccer skills and to meet other kids who had to start their lives over in the US. The week-long camp doesn’t focus only on soccer, though - it also helps kids learn lessons that can guide them off the field, such as how to respect themselves, manage anger and value other people. The camp is run by a non-profit organisation called LACES, which stands for Life and Change Experienced Thru Sports. The group uses soccer to help bring together communities that have experienced hardships. Seren Fryatt, 38, got the idea for LACES while playing on a women’s soccer team in Liberia,which had been at war with itself for 14 years. Fryatt, who’s from Muncie, Indiana, saw that soccer brought joy to the Liberian women on her team, even though their lives off the field were difficult. After starting a soccer programme for kids in Liberia, she decided to start a similar camp in Maryland, where she moved in 2015. Coaches volunteer their time, and the costs are paid mostly by donations. This year, 95 kids signed up. The camp, for ages 9 to 14, is split between drills that help kids improve skills such as passing and shooting and sessions where they discuss strategies for life. One of the coaches, Louisa Pitney, said she liked seeing the kids grow just from being together. “It’s cool to see them interact and learn things from each other,” Pitney said. Cousins Quriesh Ahmad and Monir Rasooli attended the LACES camp together. They are both 10. Quriesh came to the US from Afghanistan four years ago and Monir a year later. They said they still remembered all the bombs that would go off and how the people had no electricity and were always scared. “There are a lot of people fighting in Afghanistan,” Monir said. “But when I come here, I am safe.” Neither had played soccer before they moved to Maryland, but it has become the biggest part of their American lives. Quriesh has learnt his best moves by watching clips of Brazilian soccer star Neymar on YouTube. Because he knows practice is the way to get better, he repeats the tricks over and over. The boys loved the camp because it was a chance to practise soccer and play with kids like themselves. “I used to want to make houses when I grow up, but now I want to be a soccer player,” Quriesh said. Lara Karagholi, 10, used to kick a soccer ball in a park with friends in her home country of Iraq. When she moved to the US four years ago, she said she didn’t speak English and was bullied in school. Now her English is excellent, she loves school and she has lots of friends there. At the camp, she got to meet even more people. “I like that we get to play together and make new friends, especially when we play a real soccer game.” - Washington Post