Cape Town - The decision to scale down once you retire could be the best choice you ever make. A smaller living space is more manageable, giving you the freedom to enjoy life and make the most of your retirement. It makes practical sense to move out of your family home once you retire, and into a smaller place or an apartment, but even so it’s difficult to let go of a place that holds many years’ memories. However, if you approach the idea of downsizing with a positive mindset, you could put yourself in a better place – emotionally and physically, but also practically and financially. Scaling down means lower costs, less to take care of and fewer things to maintain, but it’s also the best excuse you’ll ever have to “start over". Reducing material possessions and hanging onto only those things that you really need and which matter to you most, is liberating. Apart from a much less complicated lifestyle, there are many other benefits to downsizing, especially when it comes to apartment living. Modern, open-plan living Opting for an apartment at Evergreen Muizenberg means living in a space that was created with comfort top of mind. The open-plan interiors are inviting and welcoming, and the layout of each unit is designed to maximise the available space. The scale makes it easy and convenient to look after. You won’t need a lot of time or effort to keep it clean, neat and tidy – stress-free living at its best, and the freedom to savour your retirement. Inside out Situated so close to the sea, Evergreen Muizenberg is located in a prime location that gives this expansive village a sense of space and freedom. Benches, garden paths and open areas create tranquil outdoor spaces throughout the village where you can relax. Selected apartments also offer direct access to a secure courtyard which residents have created pretty potted gardens. Essential connections   Healthcare Professional healthcare (including nursing, occupational therapy, day clinics, home-based care, recuperative care, palliative care and frail care) is offered at the on-site Care Centre staffed by two experienced nurses and therapists. Integrated into the Lifestyle Centre, access to this facility is quick and easy – either for yourself when you need it, or when visiting someone who is receiving specialised care. Safety & security Along with retirement finances, safety concerns are often at the top of the list when it comes to retirement planning. In an Evergreen Muizenberg apartment, you are in supremely safe hands. Security measures at the village include a security control centre and 24-hour access control, CCTV, foot and bike patrols and electric perimeter fencing. Everything taken care of Everyone who works at Evergreen Muizenberg strives to deliver world-class service every day. Our residents who live in apartments, have the full benefit of our professional village management services: administration, hospitality, cleaning, maintenance, housekeeping and landscaping. This leaves very little for you to take care of and means more time to enjoy life. Never lonely or bored Moving into an apartment at Evergreen Muizenberg, means never having to feel lonely or bored. There is always something to do, and someone to do it with. You can remain physically and mentally active, healthy and socially connected. A short walk from your front door to the Lifestyle Centre is all it takes to slot into the many clubs, special-interest groups, activities and outings that take place regularly. A full weekly activity schedule is displayed in the Lifestyle Centre and distributed to all residents. Clubs & special-interest groups  Date: Wednesday, 15 August 2018 Time: 3pm Venue: Evergreen, Sunrise Boulevard, Muizenberg RSVP: Sharon on 087 808 800 www.evergreenlifestyle.co.za