Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said the application was initially advertised on July 6 and the comment period ran until August 6. “However, it had to be re-advertised because there was a typo in the original advert. The re-advertising period started on August 5, 2018, and will run until September 3, 2018. Thereafter, the City will refer all of the comments received to the developer to respond to. Once the developer has responded to the comments or objections, the City will compile a report consisting of all of the public comments and the developer’s response to those comments. This report, together with the development application and other required documents, will serve before the Municipal Planning Tribunal for a decision,” he said. Asked if the City has done its own studies on the economic impact of the proposed casino, Herron said the City had not done so. “As part of the land use application the applicant has conducted a number of specialist studies. These include, but are not limited to, a socio-economic assessment, traffic impact assessment, botanical assessment and a visual impact assessment. All this information will be interrogated or considered, and will form part of the assessment report when a recommendation is made to the Municipal Planning Tribunal for consideration. Thus, these studies form part of the documentation which the tribunal requires in order for them to have all relevant information when they consider and pronounce on this application,” Herron said. According to the application for rezoning from Headland and Southern Sun, a division of Tsogo Sun, a portion of the land formed part of the Somerset West Golf Course but the site had been sold to Tsogo Sun for the development of a hotel and casino. Provision is made for retail outlets and restaurants, as these are usually associated with a casino complex. There are essentially two buildings - a multiple-parking structure which is associated with the casino and the casino building itself. A social impact assessment revealed that the proposed casino, hotel and associated restaurants would create 650 permanent and in-house outsourced jobs. Of the 650 permanent employment opportunities, 100 will be low-skilled, 200 semi-skilled and 350 skilled. An additional 300 employment opportunities would be created for businesses that provide services to the casino, hotel and associated restaurants. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus