“While there are other crimes recorded in the area, the ones cited are more prevalent. Between the mentioned stations, there is good police and private partnerships that enhance policing efforts a great deal,” said the provincial head of communication for the police, Brigadier Novela Potelwa. She said effective neighbourhood and crime watches helped keep crime to a minimum. “Initiatives such as the number-plate recognition cameras installed in the area also go a long way towards creating safer neighbourhoods. The SAPS works with all law- enforcement agencies in the area including metro police, security companies, and private initiatives as well as community policing forums,” said Potelwa. She stressed the importance of residents clearing mail when away as it often attracted criminal elements. Chairman of the BKM Neighbourhood Watch, Brian Wilkinson, told the Weekend Argus the BKM area (Bergvliet, Dreyersdal, Kreupelbosch, Meadowridge, Morningstar, Oakridge, Pekalmy, Spectra and parts of Diep River and Doordrift) had, for the past three months, crime occurring on Mondays, Fridays and Saturdays. “The time periods tend to be between 6pm and 12am, followed by 12am to 6am. Crime tends to spike more when it rains or it is cold. The perpetrators tend to be in vehicles and are organised, especially when it comes to burglary residential, followed by opportunistic addicts that roam the streets after dark looking to break into vehicles,” said Wilkinson. He said they also tended to find the perpetrators blending in with the bergies on bin collection days and either gathered intel on properties or used the cover of being a bin scratcher to commit petty crime and vehicle break-ins. According to Crime Stats SA, last year Diep River saw a substantial decrease in burglaries at residential premises - from 650 in 2016 to 459 in 2017. Theft of motor vehicles and motorcycles decreased, with 175 reported cases to 137. Theft out of or from motor vehicles was 653 and dropped in 2017 to 605.  Ward 71 councillor Penny East said neighbourhood watches did a great deal to keep crime statistics low. “We do still suffer some housebreakings, theft out of motor vehicles, shoplifting and the like. Many of these instances are opportunistic in that the perpetrator can see items left in a parked car, valuables visible near a window, or other temptations.” The ward covers Kirstenhof, Tokai, Heathfield, Westlake, Bergvliet (west of the Main Road, south of Ladies Mile Road, west of Glen Alpine Way, Woodlands Road, Dreyersdal Road, including Zwaanswyk Village) - Bergvliet (north of Duckette Avenue, South of Ruskin Road and east of Aristea Road) - Constantia (west of the M5 and north of Willow Road, Spaanschemat River Road and Klein Constantia Road). Meanwhile, Kirstenhof Crime Watch’s Carolynne Franklin said: “Social media platforms have been an incredible tool for us in distributing information timeously, which allows quicker response times to incidents reported.” Franklin said the general crimes experienced in Kirstenhof were trespassing (with intent to commit burglary) and theft out of motor vehicles, and these crimes generally occurred in waves, with the days and times varying. “KCW is a particularly robust and active neighbourhood watchWe are fully self-funded and are proud of the statistical role we play in keeping crime to a minimum. “In spite of our SAPS being significantly under-resourced, crime in our area is down year-on-year and this is a continuous downward arc,” she said. Rawson Properties Constantia franchisee Nancy Todd said while serious crime did occur, such as hijackings and armed robberies, the majority were opportunistic. “There are incidents of cars being broken into, garden furniture stolen, even plants pulled out on the verges.” Todd said some areas had organised very effective neighbourhood watches, and in areas like Bergvliet, Meadowridge, Constantia and Rondebosch, crime was effectively reported and patrols drove around the streets foiling petty crimes. “The criminals are from the poorer communities, although there are some organised crime gangs Buyers often ask questions regarding crime Most people accept that they need to be very proactive with alarms, dogs, fences and burglar bars.” A blog by Rawson Properties read that Constantia, with its large properties which are often well separated from each other, is sometimes said to be under serious threat. Weekend Argus