More than 279 children were murdered, and 2 063 raped in the province in just a year. Rape figures for adult women (18 and older) for the 2017/18 financial year in the Western Cape topped 3 549, which is down by 5.3% compared to 2016/17 when the figure stood at 3 747. In the 2017/18 period, 370 women were murdered in the province, while in total, 3 915 women and children were murdered across the country. These figures were presented by the police’s national top management at a briefing in Parliament on Wednesday. Police Minister Bheki Cele admitted women and children were under siege, but reiterated that most offences occur within family-and-friend circles. “We, as the police management, have accepted that children are really under attack. Women are under attack. There are also times when victims find it difficult to deal with male police officers and that is why we are pushing for more female officers to be at the front desk,” Cele said. “The biggest problem we have is that perpetrators are in the families. We had a case in Mitchells Plain of Stacey Adams; the boyfriend was responsible for the child’s murder. The child trusted the boyfriend, so how does one police that? There are incidents where the boyfriend kills the girlfriend, but the problem is that we cannot police the lovers; that’s not possible.” Cele said the police management were working to get more police officers employed. “We have asked our colleges to put more effort into the training and recruitment of the police. “There were about 300 early retirements which I refused because we need the experienced men and women to help lead the younger officers. “We can’t just let that experience go away. When it comes to rape and abuse of women, I have told officers to take care of the cases and not get involved with the merits. “There are times when you find police officers saying that female dress code was connected to their rape. But the police are not fashion advisers, and women can wear what they want,” Cele said. Chairperson of the Mitchells Plain Impact Association, Joanie Fredericks, said the figures were shocking, but they don’t represent the real situation. “We have situations where mothers are attacked by their sons, and they can do nothing about it. “The police cannot police families and relationships, but officers should judge victims at police stations. To get the victim out to the police is already a massive task,” Fredericks said. Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust co-ordinator Jeanne Bodenstein said there were several issues with reporting rape. “Investigating officers are not contactable; victims are not treated with sensitivity or taken to victim-friendly rooms, and there are several myths and stereotypes. When complaints are reported to station commanders, they rarely receive feedback,” she said. Chairperson of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities, Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva, said women were being raped at the hands of traditional leaders and clerics. “We find women going to traditional healers with their problems, but in return the healers request that the women have sex with him. “That is misusing women. It’s rape. In churches we find clerics raping young children in vestries. Those are places that are supposed to be safe for everyone,” she said. Cosatu parliamentary officer Matthew Parks said victim support systems should be strengthened at police stations. Meanwhile, the Western Cape Legislature will start public hearings on the appointment of a provincial children’s commissioner in October. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus