Both are occupational therapists and they are also the first married couple in the country to do so in this field. They completed their first degree in occupational therapy in the 1990s. This year is an extraordinary one for them, because they are also celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary next month.   Swartz-Filies went on to obtain an MA in child and family studies in 2007 and will receive her PhD in educational psychology. “Although I had an opportunity to study at Stellenbosch University (SU) at a post-grad level, I guess I am proudly UWC. I decided to stay here and I don’t regret it for a moment,” she said. It was when Sylnita started her career in the child, family and adolescent unit at Lentegeur Hospital that she developed an interest in mental health. She works at the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) in the Special Schools System. Filies has been a lecturer at UWC for the past 20 years. He started his career in the occupational therapy department as the clinical co-ordinator in 1998 and was seconded to the inter-professional education unit in the faculty of community and health sciences in 2006. “My passion for inter-professional education resulted in me completing an MPhil in health sciences education at SU in 2012. “In the second semester of 2014 I registered for a PhD in the child and family studies at UWC and handed in my dissertation for examination in December last year, under the supervision of Professor Jose Frantz,” he said. The completion of their PhD degrees was an enlightening journey for the Kuils River couple. Pursuing a PhD can be an extremely challenging, time-consuming and demanding process. This husband and wife, however, took up the challenge and managed to keep their family life afloat. They have two children, Arian, 18, in matric and Gemma, 13, in Grade 7. “We have a close bond with our children and while studying we developed the habit of sitting in close proximity to each other to also offer support to our children with their school work when needed.” said Swartz-Filies. For this couple, family life always came first. They made time for holidays, long drives, picnics and relaxing lunches, suppers on the back stoep and movie nights with friends. “We learnt that a balanced lifestyle and humour is key to academic success,” said Swartz-Filies. She said it took tremendous teamwork and a structured family life to succeed. The family lives in the very home Sylnita’s late father, Pieter Swartz built for them. They are proud to be associated with UWC. “We are UWC and we hope that our story will inspire many in years to come.” Weekend Argus