"The Daily Show" host Trevor Noah compared newly-elected Pakistani president Imran Khan to US president Donald Trump and tweeps were not impressed. He also slammed the Catholic Church, which did not sit well with many of his fans. The recent wave of criticism comes just weeks after Noah faced backlash over an Aboriginal joke he made several years ago resurfaced online, and shortly before that, he was in hot water with the US French Ambassador over comments he made about the French national soccer team following their World Cup win in Russia. Speaking on his late-night show earlier this week, Noah told viewers that he believed the former cricketer and Trump had a lot in common. Noah compared coverage of the Pakistani leader to reports about a "tanned Trump" and that Imran's residency was a "Pakistani Trump Tower". "Look, I’m not saying Imran Khan is the brown Trump. Imran Khan is one of many leaders around the world following the successful format of the hit show called ‘The Trump Presidency’, including apparently using the same writers.” “I don’t know if Prime Minister Khan will turn out like President Trump, but if you were moving to Pakistan to escape Trump, you might want to pick someplace else,” Trevor said at the end of his segment.   Noah also made some searing comments about the Catholic Church. The comedian was responding to the news that in Pennsylvania the church covered for 300 priests accused of sexually abusing children over the past 70 years.   Noah's comments soon trended on social media with many slamming him for knowing no limits. However, some did agree with the comedian's comments. See mixed reactions below.  I must say that @Trevornoah tried to ridicule @ImranKhanPTI but actually he promoted the new PM of Pakistan around the world through his popular comedy show: @TheDailyShow https://t.co/EBRTNgdD03  — Hamid Mir (@HamidMirPAK) 
 August 15, 2018   It’s hilariously true but also incredibly alarming @Trevornoah on Pakistan’s new Donald Trump https://t.co/rGqRDiHN3k missed out the scariest aspect of him defending terrorists & terrorism. #ImranKhan #Pakistan  — Bakhtawar B-Zardari (@BakhtawarBZ) 
 August 15, 2018   America’s star comedian @Trevornoah declares Imran a brown Trump. He lists amazing similarities between two leaders.Trevor it was an honor to meet you last year and attend your show.reading your book was also worth it.https://t.co/qvUuFAJtZ4 via @comedycentral  — Waseem Abbasi (@Wabbasi007) 
 August 15, 2018 