Most noted among these rangers is Nicolé Breda, who gave up her job as a supervisor at the Sasko bread factory in Worcester to become one of the province’s first female wildlife rangers. Speaking at the event in Betty’s Bay, chief executive of CapeNature, Dr Razeena Omar, who is only the second female chief executive of the organisation, saluted the brave women and men: “The marine and field rangers are in the front line when it comes to conserving biodiversity and our World Heritage Sites. “The work done by CapeNature’s marine and field rangers around the province does not go unnoticed and we acknowledge how important it is. "From conserving the landscape to protecting species from poachers, to fighting invasive alien vegetation and fire management, to helping visitors explore the Western Cape’s nature reserves." Breda said she and her colleagues are responsible for collecting data, fixing fences, removing traps and alien vegetation, and just about anything it takes to keep the various reserves in the Western Cape in pristine condition. According to Omar, globally, one ranger is killed every four days but the Western Cape has had only one killed this year. CapeNature has seen an increase in the number of women employed in various roles within the organisation. The Western Cape has 12 women out of 85 rangers across the province. “We have come a long way with this traditionally male-dominated field, looking back to 2006 we had only one female ranger, where today we celebrate 12 female rangers spread across our reserves. We expect to see this number grow rapidly in coming years,” said Omar. The woman who has attracted the most attention is Breda, who is currently employed at the Riverlands Nature Reserve in Malmesbury. She said she had to prove her worth in a largely male-dominated environment. The 34-year-old embarked on her new career in 2008 when she answered an advertisement for wildlife trainees. “The ad said there would be no money while we were in training but I wanted to do this. "I spoke to my aunt and she even agreed to pay off my debts so I can go for the training and not have to worry,” said Breda, tears still welling up in her eyes. Breda had been living with her aunt. Her mom died a few years ago and her father still lives in Worcester. And how was the news of her decision met by friends and family? Breda keeps having to answer the question: “Werk jy nog steeds in die bos? (Are you still working in the bush)?” And then there is: “Ek sal nie met jou trou nie want jy gaan met boots kom (I will not marry you because you will arrive at the wedding in boots).” “Males always had this attitude that women cannot do this. I love challenges. I even play rugby to show the men that we can do anything they can, and sometimes we do it better,” said Breda. Even after completing a 14-month training course at the Vrolijkheid Nature Reserve, near Robertson, during which Breda had to master everything the men did, she was still asked if she would not prefer to do administration work. “I consider myself the lucky one. There were 200 applications for the original training programme and I was chosen. I love my job. We are police officers, traffic officers, tour guides, firefighters, and first-aid personnel and we rescue people and animals. I would not want to do anything else,” said Breda. Her work day starts at 7.30am and ends at 4pm, but this could change at any time should an emergency arise, particularly over the dry summer months when the province experiences veldfires. “I am also responsible for picking up the other trainees that we have with us but it’s all in a day’s work,” said Breda. She and her team, which comprises two other rangers who are men, are responsible for 1 718 hectares. She said that they spend four hours of each day patrolling the reserve and collecting data. “We are not armed, we have been bitten by snakes and we have spoken to poachers about the wrongs they do and how they are affecting our reserves. Most times they listen to us and they leave the reserves,” said Breda. She completed a Nature Conservation and Conservation Leadership course at the South African Wildlife College in 2012. The Western Cape has 112 nature reserves, which translates to one ranger responsible for about 10 000 hectares, depending on the size of the reserve. Breda has already applied for a bursary at CapeNature to continue her studies, and she has her sights set on a management position in the future. Weekend Argus