The recovery was part of efforts by the SANDF to fight criminals who have become adept at using the bush to hide vehicles during the “cooling-off” period - the time searches are under way by law enforcement officials. Tuesday’s recovery resulted from one of numerous joint operations conducted by the SANDF and SAPS in Manguzi near the Mozambican border. One of the vehicles found was a Toyota Fortuner with a Pinetown registration and which the SANDF said was one of the more popular cars targeted by theft syndicates. Captain Mahlangu, who wanted only to be identified by his surname and who was in charge of the operation, said: “At about 7pm we received information that there were two stolen vehicles. We made some calls to a couple of guys to find out if they knew anything.”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mahlangu said they were told by locals that they had spotted cars being driven by people known to be involved in taking stolen vehicles across the South African/Mozambican border. He said the Saps was contacted and one driver was apprehended. The other escaped. Mahlangu said the suspect was questioned, but refused to reveal the whereabouts of the vehicles. It was only the next day that he divulged the location. The recovery of the vehicles is just one of a number of efforts being made by the SANDF to prevent cross-border crime. In a press briefing on Monday, Lieutenant-Colonel Tiger Johnson had said they had to patrol hundreds of kilometres at the Swaziland/Mozambique border to capture criminals. They had confiscated goods worth R10million since March this year, despite being hard-hit by numerous budget cuts. The cross-border crimes have also received attention from the Saps. Police Minister Bheki Cele will this weekend visit Manguzi and uMhlabuyalingana to provide feedback to residents on cross-border crimes. In February, then police minister Fikile Mbalula visited the area to address the challenges faced by the community. There has been a huge public outcry over cross-border crimes with political figures such as King Goodwill Zwelithini and DA leader Mmusi Maimane calling for the tightening of the country’s borders. Daily News