This came after she outlined that gang warfare in Kewtown and Bridgetown was hindering the safety of the community. “We need more awareness and vigilance by the communities. We have to grow current street committees and neighbourhood watches. The SAPS must deploy more staff at police stations. There needs to be more police visibility and improved SAPS people skills,” said Kannemeyer. She added that other prevalent crimes in Athlone included business robberies, robbery of persons, home invasions in Hazendal and Athlone Crawford. Drug trade, theft out of motor vehicles and theft of motor vehicles. Edward Doe, deputy chairperson of the CPF and a member of the Athlone CPF Safety Committee responsible for 14 Neighbourhood Watches in Athlone, told the Weekend Argus that the types of crimes occurring in Athlone were mainly organised crimes such as gang warfare and shootings. These happen mainly in Sector 2 ( Bokmakierie, Kewtown, Statice Heights, Gatesville and recently Bridgetown.) Business robberies are in Sector 1b (Vangate Mall), Sector 1a (Gatesville) and Sector 3 (Athlone CBD). “Robberies are prevalent in Belgravia, Klipfontein Road, Athlone CBD, Gatesville and Bridgetown (Nantes). Break-ins are mainly in Belgravia, and recently Rondebosch East. Hijackings and car break-ins happen throughout Athlone. Domestic violence and woman abuse are also prevalent,” said Doe. According to Crime Stats SA, Athlone had an increase in drug-related crime last year, from 1377 cases in 2016 to 1831 in 2017. Robbery with aggravating circumstances also increased from 359 to 377. However, their burglary at non-residential premises decreased from 195 in 2016 to 173. Common assault also went down from 533 to 494 and malicious damage to property went from 529 to 515. Sharon Classen, chairperson of Lochiel Estate Community Watch, which falls under the control of the Athlone SAPS, said most of the crimes in her area were related to drug use. “There is an informal settlement within the boundaries of our area. We have made several appeals to the City of Cape Town to relocate these informal dwellings. This has a huge impact on property value because it brings in the wrong element, drugs and anti-social behaviour into the area. Most of the criminal behaviour comes from this informal settlement. “We have had two repeat offenders arrested and sadly the Justice Department releases these criminals within six months of incarceration,” said Classen. Lochiel said crimes usually, occur between 3 am and 5 am. “Most of the crimes that occur at those times are theft out of motor vehicle and housebreaking. Robbery of learners’ cellphones and bag-snatching occurs between 6 and 9am. Business robberies are also experienced. These appear to be clearly thought-through attacks. The neighbouring areas of Crawford, Penlyn, and Rondebosch have experienced a spate of crowbar-style home invasions. Street robberies are much more frequent in winter due to darkness.” She added that there seems to be an increase in the number of prostitutes that frequent the area to ply their trade. “This, too, is as a result of drug addiction.” “SAPS responsiveness to crime reports is slow, largely due to understaffing at the station. This is no fault of the station commander but for us as residents, the service is very poor. In the neighbouring area of Gatesville, there are reports of abuse on senior citizens. Again, the SAPS response is slow,” said Lochiel. Street commuter co-ordinator Mark Ernstzen said drug peddling is a daily occurrence in the community. He informed the Weekend Argus that he normally sees a spike in crime around month end. “When it is All Pay (Sassa) our community is at risk, especially our senior citizens as they are most vulnerable as they are seen as easy targets.” Ernstzen said 70% of the crime is a result of drug abuse, in which he finds that people break in into households to feed their habit. “Fighting the drug-peddling in our community seems to be a losing battle. It is affecting our community negatively because it has streamed into our schools where our kids should be safe and protected, but these drug merchants are influencing our kids. Kids as young as 13 are currently on drugs because they are so easily available. Almost every household is in some or the other way affected by drugs,” explained Ernstzen. Up to 80 percent of movement after hours is to and from drug houses in Bridgetown, he added. “What is needed is the upgrade of Athlone police station. There needs to be more community safety awareness campaigns, better SAPS, and community organisation partnerships. Ward councillors need to get involved with all crime-fighting organisations (CPF and NHW) and not assist along political party lines.” He has called on all relevant stakeholder agencies such as the SAPS and Metro to enforce the law and close down the drug houses. “The Department of Justice must handle cases speedily and efficiently. They have to impose heavier sentences. Habitual criminals should not be entitled to bail. Rapists and murderers should not get bail or parole,” ended Kannemeyer. Criminologist Guy Lamb said incidents of violent crime vary in Athlone, with some areas being safer than others. “It is not considered to be one of the high-crime areas, but the murder level has increased by 50% last year compared to 2015/16 data, and the area is often affected by gang violence. “However, reported drug-related crime has doubled since 2012, with more than 1 800 cases in 2016/17. “There are active neighbourhood watch groups in the area that undertake regular patrols to improve community safety in the area,” he said.  shanice.naidoo@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus