Cape Town - The men who were with Durick van Blerk, the man whose disappearance is believed to have sparked the violent Hout Bay protests, are joining the official search for him. It's believed Van Blerk was out fishing on Friday night when they were confronted by officials, believed to be from the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Daff). Some believe he was shot by on-duty police officers and fell overboard. He has been missing since Friday night. The men who were with him have joined the search and will be showing police divers where he had fallen overboard. Hout Bay Civic Association chairperson Roscoe Jacobs said in a Facebook post on Sunday that he had visited Van Blerk's family. He titled the post: #IAMDURICK "Today I joined the Mother, Father, Brother and Aunt of Durick Van Blerk, we went to engage with the Police and the community in relation to the unrest and the search operation to search for Durick. "It is alleged that Durick went to fish/poach on Saturday morning and they were apprehended on Sea by the police. He was allegedly shot and fell over aboard. "Today the Fishers or Poachers as they are labeled went out to search for Durick and were accompanied by residents who led the search along the coastline. It is then alleged that the police stopped the the search and this resulted in the unrest witnessed today.   "The Family of Durick engaged the community members and have asked them to stop the protest. They thanked the community for there support but believe the violent approach and burning of factories is not good for the community. People are dependant on these places for work. "The engagement with Saps resulted in commitment that the Police Divers will be out to search for Durick. We have also been informed that IPID will be investigating the incident and the contact person and details were given to Durick family. The fishers arrested who went to fish with Durick will assist in identifying the area where this incident happened on Sea. "This incident has again highlighted the plight of young people who are excluded from the economy. We need sustainable employment for youth in our fishing communities and also programmes that can assist us empowering ourselves as youth. When the leases on Hout Bay Harbour are reviewed and renewed 51% of all leases should be owned by Coloured and African people of Hout Bay. "The police will tomorrow start the search for Durick and the family will be leading the search party on the ground along the coast. Meeting at 8am at the Park in Texies. "Let us keep the Van Blerk family in our prayers and remain calm. Let us help and allow for justice to be serve. No stone must be left unturned in resolving and seeking Justice," Jacobs said in the post. @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times