Dressed in a straight-cut check brown skirt and blackmail pantyhose with slippers, Rosalie Wolpe, 109, had chosen her outfit for the visit by Weekend Argus earlier this week. Though her neck aches and she is tired, Wolpe gives her all to the interview. She is described by her carer as a sweet, pleasant and appreciative person. Wolpe, without hesitation, confirms she is turning 109 today. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She has outlived most of her family and is now left with children David Wolpe, 73 and daughter Janet Dickman, 79, five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Wolpe, originally from Johannesburg, moved to Cape Town as a little girl and though she has no recollection of her younger days, she remembers meeting her husband, Morris, on Table Mountain. She giggles when we ask about him. How did you meet Morris? “We were on the mountain,” she said. Was he a handsome young man? “Of cause not, oh no, not at all,” she laughs. “You don’t marry a person because they are handsome, but he was definitely not handsome,” she said. Was he a good man? “I suppose,” she laughs. Every wrinkle and every contour line bears a story, the beauty and joy in her soul shines through her eyes. Her neck pains interrupt her from time to time but this strong-willed woman pushes on. She recalls a time in the 1950s and ’60s when she owned a grocery store in Claremont. She had two men working in the grocery store, they delivered groceries on bicycles when customers phoned in for orders. Entrepreneurship and a business acumen had always been in her family - 20 years earlier her mother ran a boarding house called the Chambers de Luxe in Longmarket Street in what we now know as The Tudor Inn in Greenmarket Square. However, for the past seven years, Wolpe has made a comfortable home for herself at the Highlands House. Staff and carers at the retirement home say she is a “darling”. “She chooses her own outfits in the morning, she always wants to look pretty,” explained her carer Julia Mentile. “She is not too talkative but she smiles a lot and when she walks into the dining hall, she waves at everyone as if she is the queen of England,” she giggled. Wolpe attributes her long life to healthy living: “I’ve never been sick, never went to the doctor and have never been hospitalised. I used to walk everywhere, I never drove and never wanted to be driven anywhere,” she said. Now at 109, all Wolpe suffers from is a sprained neck and a bit of fatigue.  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus