Cape Town - Tom Swartz beat out Jeanne Machel and Annelize Sainsbury to claim the title of ‘sole survivor’ and the R1 million cash prize at last night's Survivor SA: Philippines finale. The former anti-poaching ranger clawed his way to the top of the pile after spending most of the season on the bottom of his various alliances. Despite continually irking most of his tribemates and a spectacular falling out with his self-proclaimed “BFF” Chané, it was a combination of his outdoor survival skills and being able to execute big moves at the right time that propelled him to victory. At the live final tribal council, which was shot at Silverline Studios in Cape Town in front of a live audience, Swartz received six votes while Machel picked up just one vote from the jury. Earlier in the night audiences saw Machel win the final immunity challenge, which left her with the tough decision of choosing who to take to the final two. She was also given the the choice of eliminating one jury member who would not be at the final tribal council and would not cast a vote for the winner. Ultimately she took Swartz to the final - believing she had a better chance of beating him over Sainsbury. Machel also chose to eliminate Werner Joubert from the jury, believing that her actions in the previous episode where she convinced Swartz to vote out Joubert would count against her. After the show, Machel admitted that had she taken Sainsbury to the final, she still wouldn't have won the competition, while Joubert said on air that he believed Machel had made a mistake by eliminating him. Meanwhile, winner Swartz, a 41-year-old adventure camp manager, said that he would use his prize money to buy the house that he is living in so that there would never be a time that his family did not have a home. M-Net announced that the popular reality show would return for season 7 subtitled Island of Secrets that is due to air next year. Entries for next season are open to the public through the M-Net website.