“It’s the not knowing that’s hard to cope with,” says Ian Starkey, 62, the Sydney-based father of James, 36, a British banking consultant who was beaten and strangled to death in his Raphael suite's living room on Nelson Mandela Square on October 8, 2016. In spite of CCTV footage incriminating two women unknown to Starkey police have made no arrests. Nor have they offered his family reasons why robbers would strip him naked and bind his hands and ankles and then beat him for a period of time so that his blood spattered the walls and the TV. There is also no explanation for the potent drug cocktail found in his blood, including cocaine, benzoylecgonine, methcathinone, methamphetamine, pseudoephedrine and ethanol. “Nearly two years later and I still don’t have answers. That makes grieving so much more painful for me and my family. It’s soul destroying and adds to our trauma.” Starkey was murdered just three weeks after getting engaged to his Ghanaian girlfriend at a Pilanesberg game lodge. He was three weeks away from completing a three-month consultancy at Absa for his London firm, Catalyst, and going on a southern Africa safari with his dad, a retired hospital administration manager originally from Manchester. Starkey senior is hoping his reward along with the publicity of vital CCTV footage of suspects wearing his son’s clothing will provide leads in an investigation that he believes is now a cold case. Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed as much this week. “At this stage, no one has been arrested. The investigating officer is in a process of forwarding the case to the inquest court.” When police first viewed the footage they picked up two women with Starkey in the lift on the evening of Friday, October 7, 2016, as he rides up to his apartment. It was the last time he was seen alive. “There were two casually-dressed women standing behind him in the lift,” said Starkey’s sister Tori. “They don’t interact with James who looks fine but you can clearly see them trying to shield their faces from the camera.” Tori from Sydney, and Starkey’s London-based fiancée flew to Joburg in December 2016 to try to assist the police in identifying the women. Unbelievably, almost three months after the murder, cops had not yet tracked them down even though they were classified “persons of interest”. CCTV footage from the following day, Saturday, October 8, reveals the same women had not left the establishment. “You see them coming and going to and from the pool in Raphael bath robes and then later in the lift wearing James’s distinctive blue Finland cap and favourite black jacket. It was very distressing because by then James must have been dying or dead.” The same women were also seen leaving Raphael with Starkey’s black suitcase. Tori believes it might have contained items stolen from his apartment including his Armani watch, laptop, backpack, clothing items and a phone which was, according to sources, last used in Alexandra. In March last year, Ian Starkey heard via the media that one of the women was pulled in for questioning, fingerprints and DNA and then released. He was never informed of this officially. “I’m still waiting to hear if police linked her to DNA samples taken from James’s ransacked apartment,” he said. “I’m also puzzled how she managed to explain away James’s cap and other possessions on the day that police found him dead. I also want to know if they ever detained the second women for questioning.” Being kept in the dark about his only son’s murder investigation is not unusual for Starkey. The initial detective, a Captain Odendaal, made it clear to him via the High Commission that the “SAPS is not obliged to share information in an ongoing investigation”. “He was true to his word,” said Starkey. “He shared precious little until he left Sandton police in July 2017. After that I heard the case was downgraded to a constable and he has not contacted me once. For all I know, it’s a cold case." Weekend Argus