“I love you, thighs, bum, small boobs and tummy.” - Singer and actress Bianca Le Grange. “You’ve taken some hard knocks. I’m in awe of your powerful comeback.” - Comedian Tumi Morake. “I’ve cut you, stitched you, changed you a few times... but you’ve constantly been there.” - Actress and presenter Khanyi Mbau. “You’re enough! You’re beautiful! You exist! And that in itself is a miracle.” - TV presenter and comedian Nina Hastie. If you had to write a letter to your body, what would you say? If you were invited to pose nude for a good cause, what are some of the thoughts that would go through your mind? One thought crossed my mind almost instantly: how much weight can I lose if I gym hard, eat healthily and drink plenty of water for the next few weeks? The initial excitement of being asked to be part of Marie Claire’s 2018 #DearBody New Naked campaign quickly faded. Soon I was flooded with feelings of insecurity. My old friends Fear, Doubt and Shame rocked up at my doorstep at around the same time. They banged on the doors of my home, my body. They wanted in and they weren’t going to take no for an answer. Like most unwanted guests they are persistent, patiently waiting for you to let your guard down. Though there was no need for any breaking and entering. I’ve learnt over the years that it’s best to let them in, acknowledge their presence and hear them out. “What if people stare, point, laugh? Are you sure you can handle potentially bad feedback from the public?” Fear asked loudly, almost shouting. “Don’t do it. It’s not too late to change your mind and opt out,” Doubt whispered. Shame mumbled something about my father and the church, while carefully inspecting my cellulite, stretch marks and the relatively thick layer of fat around my stomach. I listened and thanked them for being concerned. We hugged it out and I sent them on their way. Fear, Doubt and Shame all left my body without putting up a fight. These negative emotions don’t have to be permanent or crippling. They tend to pop up whenever I’m about to do something for the first time, especially when it’s something out of my comfort zone. Posing nude, albeit for a cause, definitely ticks both these boxes. My body and I have come a long way. I’ve been tighter, skinnier and more toned in the past, but I have never felt more confident in my own skin. Going naked is a celebration of how far I’ve come in looking for happiness, love and acceptance from within. It’s about growth and confidence. I’ve never felt so powerful and vulnerable at the same time. Society and the media (both covertly and overtly) inform people, especially women, how to think, feel and look at themselves. Growing up I had a very narrow view of what beauty was and could be. My skin wasn’t white, by body had curves and my hair wasn’t long and sleek, so how could I be beautiful? Thankfully things have changed and we’re being exposed to more representative and diverse forms of beauty. In experiencing this we are slowly changing what it means to be beautiful or at least broadening our definitions of what it means to be beautiful. The women featured in this year’s Naked Issue have different shapes, shades and sizes. But we have something in common: we’ve learnt to love and appreciate our bodies. Some days I’ll take two steps forward, only to take three steps back, but that’s okay, since the journey continues. #DearBody I’m done fighting against your curves and one day when you’re ready to grow out your hair I’ll embrace the kink in your curls. Self-care is about a lot more than just manicures and massages. It’s about spending quality time with yourself, without spending a cent. I forgive you for being anything but your true, authentic self. I love you. Marie Claire’s #DearBody New Naked issue is on sale. Some of the images from the shoot will be exhibited and sold. All the proceeds from the sales will go to Women and Men Against Child Abuse, a non-profit organisation committed to protecting children’s rights.