Some powers have also been given to subcouncils and portfolio committees. Deputy mayor Ian Neilson, who presented the delegations during the full council meeting yesterday, said that in the past, the city’s mayor had powers delegated. “This will provide for much more openness and it will strengthen the democracy. The ANC and EFF like a centralised system with one government. These proposals give greater openness and give subcouncils more power. The mayor must make decisions with the mayco,” Neilson said. De Lille will, however, have the final say. According to the proposed rules, De Lille’s civic and ceremonial duties cannot be designated to other councillors or mayco members. Media statements on all matters over which De Lille has authority cannot be designated. De Lille can also enter into co-operative agreements, memoranda of understanding and protocol agreements with other cities, foundations, international organisations and pledges on international matters of public interest, provided that these do not create any financial obligations. According to the report, De Lille may also: “Institute or defend arbitration proceedings in matters where it otherwise would have been dealt with in the high court or a court of equal stature, in respect of matters in her sole discretion. In any other matter, this delegation is to be exercised, after considering a recommendation from the city manager.” She can also institute, defend, appeal and/or review proceedings, including arbitration rulings, in the high court or a court of equal stature, Supreme Court of Appeal or the Constitutional Court, or any other forum,” the document states. The African Christian Democratic Party’s Demetrius Dudley supported the new delegations. EFF councillor Melikhaya Xego said there were some in the DA who wanted to govern the city. “The only way to govern this city is to go to the polls. Go to the polls with your own face, not that of Patricia,” he said. ANC councillor Bheki Hadebe said: “Where did you get the authority to do what you want? The mayor can delegate her powers; her powers cannot be taken away.” In the end, 138 councillors voted in favour of the new delegations, 50 were against it while two abstained. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus