Cape Town - Acclaimed actress Tinarie van Wyk-Loots is set to make her directorial debut next month when she gets behind the helm of the award-winning Afrikaans play Swerfgoed, at the Baxter Theatre. Van Wyk-Loots says the play is very entertaining and never more relevant. “Swerfgoed’s time is now. It is a cautionary tale. How water has become a tool, an excuse for violence and how it brings out the best and the worst in human beings. The play is also very entertaining." Swerfgoed takes a dystopian view of heritage and sacrifice. Set somewhere in the immediate future on an isolated and godforsaken stretch of land at the Motel Stillewater (Still Water) an ancient treasure is locked away. The peculiar bunch of inhabitants who live here will not allow anyone to intrude. Water has become the most expensive and precious resource and as survival is threatened people will do anything to get their hands on it, even commit murder if needs be. With Day Zero an ever-looming prospect for Cape Town and the impact of climate change globally, the timing for this production could not be better planned and more relevant. Written by Bauke Snyman in 2009, this is the first time that the play is staged as a full-scale production. Snyman wrote the play after he was influenced by the ancient Greek tragic dramatists Aeschylus (his Oresteia trilogy) and Euripides (Iphigenia in Aulis), Al Gore’s famous documentary about global warming, An Inconvenient Truth, and his own personal experiences of living in Grahamstown where the local municipalities’ infrastructure was failing. Snyman said: “For days we were without water and on many occasions, while some areas were bone dry, others would be overflowing, which was caused by burst water pipes. We never knew whether there’d be water when we opened the taps and sometimes we didn’t know what to expect - a jet of thick mud or a hissing gust of dry air sprouting from the taps.” The play was selected for full development at the 2017 Teksmark at the Baxter and then premiered at the 2018 Klein Karoo National Arts Festival (KKNK) where it won three Kanna Awards for Best Debut Text (Snyman), Best Supporting Actress (Nicole Holm) and Best Supporting Actor (Richard September). Swerfgoed runs at the Baxter Golden Arrow Studio from September 5 to 22 at 7.30pm with matinees at 3pm on Saturdays. Ticket prices range from R80 to R130. There is an early special of R100 for bookings made before September 5. Weekend Argus