Niyaaz Arendse, Yanga Sobetwa and Lincoln Lewis showed that they have what it takes to go far in the show. Irvin Pooe from broadcaster Mzansi Magic said eight male singers in the Top 16 would be performing tonight and eight female singers would perform next Sunday. On September 9, the Top 10 will be announced. Arendse, 22, who entered the competition for the fourth time, said he started singing at the age of 4. He said the first time he entered Idols he made it to the director’s cut. “The second time I made it to the TV auditions, the third time I made it to the Top 31 and this time I made the Top 16. So every time I entered I made it a step further.” The reason he entered again was to prove he is worthy of being part of the competition and to make it all the way to the end. He also said his family struggles financially and winning would give them some sort of financial security. “I want to take care of my mom and give her the retirement she deserves. I am doing this for my family.” Despite three previous auditions, this time around it was nerve-racking. “My audition went well other than the fact the Randall said ‘No’.” Making it to into the Top 16 was a surreal feeling, he said, but he is looking forward to having the opportunity to perform in the live shows and have the public vote for him. Even though every singer in the Top 16 was deserving of taking home the prize, Arendse said he sees himself winning. “Winning means my dreams coming true. People should vote for me because I am hard-working, determined and I never give up. I always try my best to be the best.” Meanwhile, Sobetwa, 17, a Grade 11 pupil, said she first started singing in Grade 4. “I won my very first competition when I was in Grade 5 - it was R1000.” This is the first time she has entered Idols. “My audition in front of the judges was nerve-racking, but it was amazing. I enjoyed it a lot. “They told me I had a beautiful voice and that I was young, but very smart because I had everything planned out.” She admits that from the very beginning she knew she would go far in the competition. “It feels amazing that I’m here now. Sometimes you hope for things and it doesn’t come to completion the way we think it will. But now I’ve made it to the Top 16 and it’s amazing.” She also sees herself winning the contest. “It’s not an easy thing, but you either go big or you go home. I entered so I can win. “Winning this competition will mean a lot - it will mean exposure. People should vote for me because I am young, enthusiastic, goal-driven and very passionate about music. I go for what I want.” Lewis, 22, said he has been singing for as long as he can remember. He initially had no intentions of entering Idols. “A cousin of mine asked me to accompany him to the audition and I ended up auditioning as well. My audition was surreal. I couldn’t believe that I was standing in front of them (the judges).” He definitely did not think that he’d be where he is now, in the Top 16. “I didn’t think that I would make it this far. I had faith in Christ that I would make it this far. It definitely feels very surreal. However, being an artist has always been part of my dream, so it feels natural at the same time.” Lewis said he was going all the way to the end. “I see myself, God willing, winning the competition because of the faith I have in Christ. Winning to me means that I can change the lives of whomever will be supporting my craft, as well as changing the lives of my family, friends and the community I come from. “People should vote for me based on my merit as a vocalist and a performer.” You can watch Arendse and Lewis perform tonight on Mzansi Magic, DStv Channel 161. Weekend Argus