Cape Town - The Department of Rural Development and Land Reform has backtracked on its plans to transfer the budget for the historic District Six area to the provincial Department of Human Settlements. The decision surfaced at the standing committee on Human Settlements meeting earlier this week where both parties agreed that the department would take over the development of the Phase 3 building, which came to a standstill due to the tender for the Durban-based Fikile Construction company being terminated. “I am gravely concerned that the department is backtracking on its commitment made to the community of District Six, who have already waited 20 years to be returned to their beloved community. It was with great joy that we received the news from the DG, who was committed to moving forward and completing Phase 3 of the District Six Restitution Program,” chairperson of the Standing Committee on Human Settlements, Matlhodi Maseko said. Maseko briefed the media on Friday after the department disputed claims that they made an agreement with the provincial standing committee on Tuesday. The committee initially wanted Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane to answer questions about the current status of District Six, or face being subpoenaed. Maseko said before agreeing to this step, the standing committee clarified with the DG that she had the authority to make decisions on taking an integrated approach to the development of District Six; to which she responded she did. In a statement by the department, they said: “It must also be noted that an agreement of this nature cannot be reached solely by the Accounting Officer without the Executive Authority’s approval and it is regrettable that DA political leadership will make such pronouncement without consultation with the Head of the department.” Maseko said the committee will invite the minister again and if she fails to appear they will subpoena her. At the moment, it's still uncertain as to what this will mean for residents. Maseko said she expects the department to present to the committee the business plans when they meet next month. On Saturday, the District Six working committee is expected to meet with its members to give an update on their court battle with the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform. The committee filed a court application against the department’s failure to provide restitution to District Six claimants since 1998. The application was lodged in April in the Land Claims Court in Joburg. It was stated in court papers that the national government and the commission have a constitutional obligation to observe the Bill of Rights, which includes the right to restitution. The committee is representing 969 claimants, with 22 respondents listed. Of the claimants, 70 are elderly. Meanwhile, land owners who are still waiting to be compensated for their property have also, as a last resort, approached the court to be compensated for two massive developments underway in the area. Residents have also accused the District Six Beneficiary Trust of corruption and selling their land to wealthy developers.