The crew of six, aged between 27 and 29, docked in front of the Marina building at the V&A Waterfront yesterday morning.  At one point near the Cape Horn, notorious for extreme weather, the young women pushed through wind-storms of up to 70 knots in rough seas with a swell of up to 9-10 metres. The women’s arrival at the Waterfront coincided with Holi, India’s festival of colours.  They were welcomed by Ruchira Kamboj, Delhi’s High Commissioner to South Africa, and Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille on a deck. Fresh off the boat after 187 days out at sea, Indian navy logistics officer Lieutenant Peyal Gupta, 27, said: “We got better and better at handling the boat and facing those storms and going through that actually gave us more confidence in handling the boat.” She said the wind blew at 140km/*  near the Cape Horn in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. “It was the first time we saw 70 knots, so it was a bit scary,” Gupta said. She said they spent their free time cooking, doing repair work and watching movies on their laptops. Explaining the essence of the tour, Lieutenant Aishwarya Boddapati, electrical officer, said: “The essence of this tour was to advance India. Being an all-women crew empowers women and brings our country’s name to the fore. “Circumnavigation around the globe was attempted twice (by the Indian navy), one had stops and the other had no stops. Taking it forward the question was: why not an all-women crew? So we volunteered and became a part of the team. It’s been incredible so far.” Boddapati said the circumnavigation had amped her up to take more challenges. The crew had trained to sail for two years before taking on this great feat. “There were also fun moments. Most of the Indian celebrations happened while we were on the boat. We decorated the boat and sang carols on Christmas. And today we arrive just in time for the Holi festival of colours. It’s auspicious to apply colours on each other’s faces and wish one another a happy Holi.” After welcoming the crew, De Lille and Kamboj painted one another’s faces in green and red. “It’s a great day for the City of Cape Town to welcome brave sisters from India. South Africa always had close relationships with India. “This is a proud moment for women around the world. We are just happy to welcome them to our shores in Cape Town,” she said. Standing alongside De Lille, Kamboj said: “This brings our two countries closer and there is immense symbolism that girls can do anything.”