The cycle tour makes a return after last year’s event was cancelled due to blustering winds. The tour preceding last year’s was shortened. Radio personality and 16-
time participant Ryan O’Connor plans to ride slightly slower than his previous times so he can bask in the scenic route. “I’ve cycled sub-3hours before, but I feel like I have to slow down this year and just enjoy the route,” the radio presenter said. But he still plans to post a respectable time. “I’m going to try to do four hours.” The veteran radio personality advised cyclists to be confident. “There is nothing worse than sitting on that bike and realising, ‘I have not prepared enough for this race’.” On the diet leading up to the race, he said: “I think this is important for first-timers and those going for their 10th cycle tour. I think the nice thing about this is you get to get away with a lot more carbs than usual. So, even though a lot of people cut out alcohol and all kinds of fatty foods, I kind of enjoy carbs leading up to a race. I love pasta.” The experienced cyclist adds that he consumes at least one or two glasses of wine or a beer the night before a race. “Believe it or not, it all helps you the next day. When you need it the most, those carbs will kick in and push your legs on.” He said he had to be disciplined to juggle his career and his training. His training regimen includes up to three hours of cycling, including Saturdays. O’Connor lauded Capetonians’ support of the cycle tour. “From the very second you start the race to the very end, the support is amazing, especially when you’re battling up Chapman’s Peak. It’s definitely a Cape Town thing.” He describes the 16 times he has cycled as “insane”. He advised first-timers to pay attention on the beauty of the route “because it’s the most beautiful thing you’ll see”. O’Connor urged cyclists to respect motorists. He will be cycling in yellow and black colours as he represents the Sunflower Fund. Former Springbok wing and cycling fanatic Breyton Paulse makes his Cycle Tour debut this weekend. He is hoping to blitz the 109km race in three hours 20 minutes. “Cycling is not always fun, but it’s worth every step of the way. It’s a hobby I enjoy, and I get to make new friends I just enjoy it and compete with myself,” Paulse said. He cycled the Cape Epic, 947, Pedal Power and Double Century tours last year. “I’ve just joined a club called Cyclopaths. They’re monsters on bicycles and they pushed me a lot.” Former Stormers and Bok captain Corné Krige, who will be turning out for the Laureus Foundation, has cycled so many times he has lost count. “I think I’ve participated 10 times I might stop to have a beer on this one,” he said. “It’s one of the most beautiful races in the world.”