This as the party’s women’s organisation holds its first elective congress scheduled to take place on April 6 in Pretoria, a day before the national structure holds a two-day national congress. Nominations for candidates for Dawn, DA Youth and national leadership to elect the leader, federal chairperson and three deputy chairpersons closed last Friday evening. This Sunday the party is expected to announce all the candidates that have been nominated and have availed themselves for the positions. Current leader, Mmusi Maimane, is expected to contest unopposed while the position of federal chairperson has been rumoured to be a head to head contest between Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga and Nelson Mandela Bay mayor AtholTrollip, who currently holds the position. At the conclusion of the congress, the party’s federal council will sit to elect the chairperson and deputy chairperson of Federal Council, as well as the federal chairperson of finance. For the Western Cape’s Mbombo, her running for the national position in the Dawn structure is central to her passion around advancing women. “This is the first time we hold a conference; it has always been a co-opted, so now we have held branch general meetings to elect representatives. "For me I have always been a part of driving a women’s agenda, in addition to my responsibility in government,” she said. “I am coming from an academic background with a PhD in gender and human rights, so my fighting for women and children’s rights has been a part of what I do within the party’s structure. "It has also worked parallel with some of the initiatives I have introduced in the department of health for young women and girls, because I believe when you invest in young people you avoid putting too many resources in fixing and repairing broken adults.” She will go up against Eastern Cape MPL Veliswa Mvenya who served as the structure’s leader in the province from 2000 to 2001. The party’s spokesperson, Mabine Seabe, said they will use the congress to address the party’s policies ahead of next year’s general elections. “This is not just an elective congress, we will also be refining our policies,” he said.