The weather on the Durbanville wine route was superb and the crowds didn’t seem to mind the long queues to enter, before being treated to thrilling performances on stage. Shekhinah had the crowd on its feet as the Durban-born singer sang several of her hits. Chart-topping star TiMO ODV was another favourite, as were home-grown talents, Idols SA winner Paxton Fielies and her Voice SA counterpart Craig Lucas. “My first KDay was very successful, and I’m looking forward to many more,” said Paxton. “For me, this is my home town. It’s Cape Town, you know? People genuinely love you here. And it’s really great to feel that love and to give that love back. “Because for me, I’m not always here, and I feel like sometimes they maybe feel like I’m a little distant, because I’m not always in Cape Town, so it’s really nice to show that love," she added. “If I do shows in Joburg, I don’t really feel that kind of love that I feel here." Multi-instrumentalist Matthew Mole, too, had the audience in raptures. “I’m fortunate enough to play at a lot of these kinds of festivals, these are my favourite kind of shows," he said. "But Huawei KDay... sjoe, that’s a big one, it’s one of the biggest in South Africa, you know, so it’s a massive honour just to be part of the line-up and the fact there are people there when we play, it’s amazing as well. “It’s my favourite part of the music business, you know; there’s the studio time and that’s a very important part of it, but it feels like all of 
that is just a build-up to this - performing. “But it’s a massive honour to be associated with an event like this,” he added. Mole said festivals like KDay were a perfect platform to grow one’s audience: “Look, it’s the ideal show to play, because there are literally thousands of people who have no idea who I am. "And here I am on the line-up, where I know there are lots of other different bands who are from totally different genres, and hopefully people will think I’m sort of cool because I’m playing on the same stage. “But, yeah, it’s an amazing opportunity to play to people. Everyone is here for different genres and if I play for them and they like it, it’s quite cool,” Mole added. The KFM crew were out in force at the event, with on-air presenters Brandon Lee, Andy Maqondwana, Ian Bredenkamp, Sechaba G, Darren Simpson, Sherlin Barends and Sibongile Mafu mingling with the crowd.