She was born in Salt River and at the age of 2 moved with her family to Lansdowne, where she still lives. The first time she realised she could draw was at the age of 9. “I didn’t even realise what I was doing. Only later I realised it was an abstract piece.” She said after this, she had intense urges to draw and paint. “When I was 11, I took a nail and chipped out a sailing ship in the wall of our house.” She said she got into a lot of trouble for it. Her father’s friend noticed her talent and told him to enrol her in at art school. He did, but she was refused entry because she was coloured. Poole said she is able to paint from memory and from pictures. “When I close my eyes I can see the form perfectly in my head.” She enjoys painting landscapes and seascape, and drawing portraits. She has been drawing all her life, but only started painting 11 years ago. She uses acrylics and oil. But she also enjoys charcoal and pencil. She draws on anything she can. “In one week I am able to complete a few small paintings. I would like my work to be displayed but I sometimes I feel it is not good enough,” said Poole modestly. About four years ago some of her art and her camera with pictures of her work was stolen; eight years ago her portfolio was also stolen. In 2014, she was cast in the movie Twee Grade van Moord and can be seen in one of the scenes hanging out the washing. “It felt natural because I was used to hanging out the washing,” she laughed. But she is no stranger to the acting world. “My husband had a puppet theatre. We would go to churches and other places to do shows.” The whole family was involved, she said. Reflecting on her 90 years, Poole said she lived her life for her family and her art.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She is still healthy, and attributes this to living an active life and eating well. “Growing up I loved the outdoors. I would often milk the goats when I was younger.” She stays away from fried foods and mainly eats boiled and steamed meals. Her one vice is sugar. “I like black coffee with lots of sugar. I’m now down to three spoons from four." Her hope is to be able to encourage young people that they can do better, either through art or anything else that promotes a positive lifestyle.