Zuma is set to appear before Judge Themba Sishi in the Durban High Court on charges of fraud, corruption and racketeering next Friday. It is alleged that an all-night vigil has been planned for Thursday night, but a venue has not been finalised. The crowd is expected to march to the Durban High Court. It is further alleged that minibus taxis will block off major routes into and out of the city. Furthermore, civil society has been urged to join the march to show support. Nkosentsha Shezi, of the National Funeral Practitioners’ Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA), said they would march to the court and wanted others to join them. Calling Zuma the “father of radical economic transformation (RET)”, Shezi said Nafupa SA would be joined by various business forums on the day. “We appreciate the fact that (former) president Zuma is no longer the head of state and therefore supporting him is not a ticket to tenders or any form of favours. “The forums agreed to unite behind Zuma as the father of RET and land expropriation without compensation. He is the first president to declare expropriation of land without compensation, thereby bringing hope for the restoration of the dignity of African people,” he said. Shezi said they respected the rule of law and upheld the notion of innocent until proven guilty. “We call upon church leaders, bishops and pastors, musicians, students, women’s groups and the youth to come out in numbers and show solidarity with the father of RET, the champion of RET, (former) president Jacob Zuma,” he said. Boy Zondi, of the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco), said he was unaware of any plans to block off routes. “This is the first time I am hearing about this. I was just in a meeting with city leaders and no one said anything about it,” he said. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said he, too, had not been informed of any such plans. Kwazi Mshengu, the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) chairperson in KwaZulu-Natal, said they had not planned any events for Zuma’s appearance and they would be attending the court case in their personal capacity. “Given a decision made by the ANC National Executive Committee that no party structure or leagues should be used to mobilise support for anyone facing criminal charges, we have respected that, as the ANCYL in KZN. We will be attending court as individual members,” Mshengu said. Meanwhile, Zwakele Mncwango, the DA leader in KZN, has lambasted efforts to garner support for Zuma’s appearance. “His recent campaign of going around the province trying to mobilise support ahead of his trial, is an indication of a man who is desperately trying to garner support to avoid the long arm of the law. As the days of his trial get closer, it seems the former president is now changing his tune from what he has been saying all along, namely that he wants to have his day in court,” Mncwango said. Daily News