Alfred Mosima studied IT at CTI private college in Pretoria where he acquired an Honours degree. When he started working in 2011, he struggled to move around to see clients in different towns because he did not have a car and public transport was limited. He relied on hitch-hiking to get around. He told Weekend Argus he decided to develop an app to solve the problem which was experienced by a number of people, including his college mate and business partner, Thabang Somo. Somo also studied
information technology and his experience of hitch-hiking was traumatic. “After my final exam in 2010, I went to the hiking spot to catch a lift home but the taxi was taking long to fill up so I decided to catch a ride from a private car,” he said. During the trip, Somo and another passenger were robbed by the occupants of the car they were travelling in. He was lucky to be alive but the experience sparked something in him. A few years later, Mosima, now the founder and chief executive of Waycer Technologies called on Somo to test his new app and give him feedback. “It resonated with me and that is how I came to be involved in the business,” Somo said. The app is designed to allow car owners to register their cars and to offer a ride to 
travellers going the same 
direction. Travellers can use the app to search for rides on their desired route and accept offers. Both the traveller and the driver can chat and arrange travel details and payment on the platform free of charge. While the app cannot facilitate payment for trips, this feature and other verification measures will be added in the future, Somo, who is the company’s director for strategy and business development, said. “Using the app means that you can get to know the person you’re going to be travelling with before the actual trip,” he added. “The best thing about this, you don’t have to wait on the side of the road but you can select a common area like a shopping complex where you can meet and the trip can begin from there,” Somo said. According to Mosima, the app is being developed to offer more to both the driver and the traveller in future, including payment options and heightened safety for both users through strict vetting processes. The app is free and downloadable on Android devices.  noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus