Irate residents said they were sitting on a major health ticking bomb and feared if the City continued to ignore the situation, there could be a major disease outbreak in the area which would spread to nearby suburbs. Sewage runs openly in some of the streets among the RDP houses and  the backyards. In some cases, blocked sewerage pumps cause spillovers inside the houses. During a visit to Dunoon this week, residents spoke of a high rate of tuberculosis (TB), even among children, HIV, diarrhoea and skin rashes, linking them to the filthy conditions. One resident Funeka Qashani blamed the City for “lack of efficient planning” and maintenance of the sewerage infrastructure. “I have had to send three of my children to the Eastern Cape because they developed  health conditions which got worse over the years. I have given up on the municipal officials. Every time I report the matter they refer me to plumbers contracted to them but I have to pay the costs myself,” she said. In her yard, swarms of flies hovered over a blocked sewerage pipe which she had to clean almost three times a week. Qashani said when the government built the houses, it should have taken into consideration the fact that more people would flock to the cities and its infrastructure should thus be designed to be able to cope with associated pressures. “It is clearly a matter of infrastructure that cannot cope and the authorities who do not want to take responsibility for its upgrade and maintenance,” Qashani added. Nosiseko Charlie’s 13-month-old grandson contracted TB last year even before he celebrated his first birthday. “When I bought the house from the previous owner, I was not aware of the problem. But soon after I experienced it I  reported the matter to the local municipal officials who told me to repair it myself.” The municipal pipe was built on her property and she does not see any reason why she should be liable for maintenance or repair costs. “It’s very bad, sometimes when we wake up the house is flooded with sewage. My other schoolgoing  grandchildren are covered with a rash as a result of these conditions,” Charlie said. In Glandflora Street, Lungile May had to buy a pipe to control the flow of  sewage, which he said would overflow into his house. “I am a builder, and I had a look at these pipes, they are too small and cannot cope with the capacity of effluent here. “I was excited to get the house in the 1990s but the City has now turned what we regard as a Mandela legacy into a shambles.” The conditions have prompted a call by the EFF for an “equitable distribution” of resources to ensure that all residents lived in decent conditions. The party’s co-ordinator in Dunoon and Parkland, Buntu Gwija, said: “The City has to  look  at the health hazard posed by the conditions in Dunoon and other areas before we sit with a pandemic. The officials have diverted all their attention and resources to averting Day Zero, but they had turned a blind eye for many years to the living conditions and health implications posed by these (conditions).” The city’s mayoral committee member for water and waste services Xanthea Limberg blamed “the inappropriate” use of the sewer system by some residents and said this could have created problems for those who might have been using the system as it was  designed to be used. She said the primary cause of the recurring sewer blockages and overflows was the disposal of inappropriate materials into the sewer. “Items disposed of by residents into the system include, but are not limited to, hubcaps, building rubble, building bricks/blocks, sand, animal remains, cooking fats and oil and general litter. These items affect the conveyance of the pipes,” Limberg said. She said while officials attended to blockages created by a build-up of such materials, it was not possible to reduce their recurrence if disposal into the sewer system continued. Limberg added the City’s efforts to maintain the sewer system were further hampered by “unauthorised” development and densification. “Many residents build over the manholes which means that when a pipe gets blocked it is much more challenging to access a blockage and clear it.” But the EFF said the problem appeared more widespread than the City acknowledged. Gwija called for more resources to be made available to provide residents with a healthy environment. “The City has to intervene. If they ignore this health hazard, they do it at their peril.”