12 Cape Peninsula high schools will go head-to-head from 6pm for the grand prize of R20000 worth of musical equipment. An additional R5000 will be awarded to the school which receives the best crowd participation. Audiences can expect to be entertained by a wide range of music genres and instruments. The shortlist of schools includes Bridgetown, Parel Vallei, 
Parklands College, Settlers High, Bishops, Elsies River, Wynberg Girls, Alexander Sinton, Rustenburg and Bergvliet. Organisers of the event say each band will be scored by a panel of music experts according to three categories. Musicality includes song arrangements, technical proficiency, artistic ability, originality and interpretation. For presentation the judges will be looking at performance attitude, stage dominance, confidence and rapport. For patronage, schools will need to show they have support, crowd participation, school spirit and enthusiasm. Here is information on some of the bands: Bridgetown High School’s band was established four years ago as the school’s principal Andrew Windvogel wanted to develop pupils academically as well as artistically. Pupils are from previously disadvantaged townships such as Bridgetown, Khayelitsha, Mitchells Plain, and Gugulethu. The band shares an overwhelming passion to create music. Parel Vallei High School’s band began three years ago and has focused on performing popular hit songs. They are a 13-piece band and will showcase hits such as Cool Kids and Ugly Heart. Parklands College Jazz Band formed in 2014 as a 10-piece ensemble that boasts a versatile group of talented musicians. Playing a mixture of jazzy, groovy and uplifting pop music their sound is lively and fun. Settlers High School’s band has a repertoire ranging from well-known jazz standards and African music, to local and international jazz, Latin and pop covers. They won this competition in 2014 and 2015. Bishops College Blues Band enjoys doing covers of hits from the ’60s. The band comprises drummer Hugo Janssen, guitarist Jono Greyling and Benjamin Fisher on vocals and keyboards. Elsies River High School Band has a rich cultural and academic history despite not having many resources. Some of the band’s accolades include being 2015 and 2016 High School Jam Champions, 2016 and 2017 Band Slam Champions and performing at the 2016 Cape Town International Jazz festival. The school strives to offer pupils a platform where they can express themselves creatively. Wynberg Girls High School Band has grown since it was formed in 2009, and now comprises 25 girls under the leadership of Dayna Pearce. For the past three years the band has made it to the finals of the Band Slam and have received the spirit award and cash prize on numerous occasions. They regularly perform in public and their repertoire includes a wide range of genres from swing to pop. The Alexander Sinton High School Band has been in existence for a few years and is currently under the direction of Ferenaaz van der Schyff. In 2016 the band debuted in the Cape Town International Jazz Festival’s high school band’s training and development showcase. Rustenburg Girls High School Jazz Band was founded in 2001 by Rosemary Davis who developed it into a fully-fledged ensemble with a versatile Jazz Combo running alongside. Since her retirement in 2010, Robyn Jepson continued to develop the performing skills of pupils through exposure to public performances and master classes from prominent jazz musicians, expanding the saxophone section by adding the baritone saxophone. The Bergvliet High School band was first established in 2011 when a group of pupils, with help and support of teacher Harlene Veotte, performed for Good Hope FM. Since then they have performed at various events around Cape Town. Performances are free.  For more informations see 
www.waterfront.co.za 