Sydney - Australia's Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton has
doubled down on his comment about "persecuted" white farmers from
South Africa and his desire to bring them to "a civilised country
like ours." Dutton first gained attraction after he said on Wednesday evening the
white farmers deserve "special attention" because they face violence
and land seizures. Dutton said he has directed his department to explore whether the
farmers can be accepted into Australia through refugee, humanitarian
or other visas, including the in-country persecution visa Category. "I think in this circumstance we do need to look at the persecution
that's taking place," Dutton told Sydney's 2GB radio on Thursday. Dutton said the South African expat community in Australia "work hard
and integrate well into Australian society." "They contribute and make us a better country. They're the sorts of
migrants that we want to bring into our country." Read: Dirco to engage Australian government, but calls for fearmongering to stop The issue of land ownership in South Africa has been a fraught topic
as almost 75 per cent of its farmland is in white hands though they
make up less than 10 percent of the overall population. Dutton's comments about "the horrific circumstances" faced by the
white farmers ignited a diplomatic row overnight. Read more: Australia's plan to save white SA farmers from 'horrific circumstances' "We regret that the Australian government chose not to use the diplomatic channels available for them to raise concerns or
to seek clarification," South Africa's foreign ministry said. "There is no reason for any government... to suspect that any South
African is in danger from their own democratically elected
government." Dutton's own department has come under heavy criticism from the
United Nations and human rights groups for a harsh immigration policy
and failing to protect asylum seekers and refugees, who have been
languishing in Australian offshore detention centres, with reports of
physical and psychological abuse, on two Pacific islands since 2014. dpa