Whether it’s setting a record time for the Grand Drakensberg Traverse or winning the iconic Western States 100-miler, South Africa’s top ultra-trail athlete, Sandes, is never short of ideas for the next challenge - often in tandem with Griesel. The challenges the two faced on the traverse were substantial, but pale in comparison with their current adventure - setting the fastest known time for the Holy Grail, the Great Himalayan Trail (GHT), stretching the breadth of Nepal. In the early years of this millennium, mountain adventurers had the idea of establishing a single trekking trail across Nepal, from the east to the west - over 1400km in length and passing through subtropical jungles to high altitude alpine ecosystems. After many years of research and mapping, the trail was walked for the first time in 2008 and 2009 by a team led by British mountaineer Robin Boustead, in 162 days. Sandes and Griesel are aiming to complete their crossing in 24 days. Sandes says at present more people have walked on the moon than have completed this trail, which involves an ascent of 68500m - the equivalent of over eight ascents of Mount Everest, from sea level. Following Sandes and Griesel’s record Drakensberg Grand Traverse crossing in 2014, the much larger mountains, and extreme conditions in the Himalayas, offer an opportunity for both to explore their physical and mental limits. Although there have been points where they received permits and basic kit from a support crew, the pair will rely on local hospitality for nutrition, water and  rest. Travelling light to ensure speed - their packs are about 10kg - Sandes and Griesel have been pushing to new extremes, particularly in the “high country” first stages in the Dolpa and Annapurna regions, where they had to navigate passes over 5000m, at times in severe  conditions. They have faced risk to life and limb. “The maps are not accurate,” Sandes said from a recent overnight stop. “We would be approaching what appeared to be a village at the end of a day, and sometimes there was nothing there at all. “On the eighth day in extreme weather and minus 15º temperatures, there was a good chance we would have frozen to death had we not come upon a monastery where we were able to spend the night.” Griesel, known as a hardened mountaineer, admitted that the challenge had been far tougher than he could have imagined. “There was not a single person out there in the mountains,” he said after an early, high-altitude section of the trail. “The conditions were brutal but I wouldn’t have changed it for anything.” Navigation has been a challenge, with Griesel having to draw on all his experience to follow trails buried in snow, using inaccurate maps, GPS and cellphones to find their way to the next checkpoint. Frost-bitten fingers have been a legacy of his having to use navigational devices and expose his hands to the sub-zero conditions. Following the Annapurna region, the pair plunged into a steep descent, dropping over 3000m in altitude in less than a day, before reaching the village of Jiri on Day 15, ahead of their planned schedule. The current fastest known time for the GHT was set by South African Andrew Porter, who completed the challenge in 28 days, 13hrs, 56min. Sandes and Griesel had completed 1050km by noon on Thursday,  and are on course to complete their journey in record time over the weekend at the eastern Nepal-India border town of Pashupatinagar.