Cape Town - A third woman has come forward to claim she, too, had been in a relationship with a cop who allegedly killed his girlfriend and her mother before committing suicide last week. The 37-year-old woman, who asked not to be identified, says she has two children with Detective Granville Brooks, 41, and that they’d been in a relationship for 16 years. Brooks was married to Samantha Brooks, but told his colleagues and his deceased girlfriend, Charmaine Goliath, 27, he had divorced his wife two years ago. After the bloodbath at Charmaine’s house in Lentegeur on Thursday, Samantha, who also had two kids with Brooks, confirmed on Facebook they were still married, posting: “I will always love you, my husband.” Read: Cop in hostage drama kills two before committing suicide Hostage drama cop took pics of victims after fatal shooting On Monday, a third woman came out on Facebook and told the Daily Voice she had no idea her lover was seeing Charmaine. The post, accompanied by photos of the woman and Brooks, read: “It’s been four days but still feels like a dream, every morning I wake up and ask myself: “Is it real, are you really gone? I’m so heartbroken, I keep phoning your number just to hear your voice.(sic)’” The Mitchells Plain woman says Brooks told her he had separated from his wife, and she was not aware Samantha was still in the picture. The mother of two says it came as a shock when she heard Brooks had allegedly killed two people and himself. He had told her he was away on training in Oudtshoorn. The 37-year-old says it has been especially hard on their two young children, aged four and nine. She asked not to be identified for the sake of her children. “It’s been difficult, but I have to be strong for the kids sake,” she said. “We were not married and, no, I wasn’t aware of the so-called girlfriend (Charmaine). He was separated and stayed with his mother, but he was still married. “It was a shock to me because I thought he was still on training.” The woman says no one will ever know the truth of why Brooks allegedly killed Charmaine and her sickly mother, Susan April, 54. “I’m so sick and tired of everything that’s being said. Only he knows why he did it and what went through his mind at that time.” Friends of Charmaine’s told the Daily Voice she wanted to break up with the officer because she found out that he was still married and seeing his wife. Also read: Cop accused of lover's murder 'was still married' On Wednesday night, Brooks returned from Oudtshoorn and went to Charmaine’s Begonia Street home. Her sister called the police after Brooks became “violent and argumentative”. A cop source says his colleagues managed to calm him down, but before he left he said: “As ek terug kom, gaan ek almal vrek maak. (If I came back, I will kill of all you.)” He returned to the house the next morning and shot and killed the two women and then himself. Brooks was stationed at Lentegeur Police Station. Daily Voice