The development was to boost Gugulethu’s economy and create jobs. Mzoli Ngcawuzela made the decision this week after protesters set a car on fire in front of his property, part of the building was damaged and the supermarket next door was looted. The area has been marred by violent service delivery protests for the past two weeks and backyarders also occupied businessman Peter Motale’s land. The police and the city council tried to restore calm this week. But tempers flared up at a closed meeting between mayor Patricia de Lille and the Gugulethu protesters on Thursday evening. Representatives appointed by the protesters told Weekend Argus they had initially refused to “discuss anything with the mayor” because it was their struggle. The meeting was held to discuss protesters’ demands including temporary houses in Charlesville while their homes were being built on the sites they identified in Gugulethu. The sites in question are in NY1 (owned by Peter Motale), Mr Tshabalala and Mr Dub, NY6 (it is unclear who owns the land at this stage) and NY108 where Uluntu Centre was demolished (owned by Ngcawuzela and somebody else). “We are not going back to the backyards, we will stay on the land owned by Peter Motale until the city council moves us to Charlesville and tells us they are prepared to build for us,” said protest leader, Mirvin Tshabalala. Motale acquired his land in 1996 and had plans to 
build flats. “We are no longer interested in what Motale’s plan for the land is, we are not moving from the land,” said Tshabalala. He also added they wanted “services on the land”. “If the city council could give electricity and water to Marikana which is on private land, why can’t they do that here for us.” Businessmen Motale and Ngcawuzela are in negotiations with the city council for the sale of the land. Both Motale and Ngcawuzela grew up and continue to live in the area where their businesses provide jobs to the community. Ngcawuzela had plans of “bringing a supermarket to the community”. According to Ngcawuzela the development was halted by the protests. He owns the site on NY108 where the Uluntu Centre was demolished several years ago. “I am willing to give the land over if that is what the community wants,” he said. He bought the land in 2007. When asked if he would move the Pick n  Pay supermarket project elsewhere, he said, “No, I just want to get out of the land deal now”. Though calm has been restored in the area, Tshabalala said there was no telling what the “people would do if we do not get what we want, but we will definitely take it to the streets”. Gugulethu Development Forum secretary-general Vincent Domingo said the forum supported protests but condemned the violence. “We have told the government on several occasions that this issue with backyarders was a ticking time bomb and now here we are, people are up in arms,” he said. Residents had been protesting over the lack of adequate land for them to build houses on.  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus