The jet belonged to the Gupta family, whose alleged corruption helped trigger the scandals that forced former president Jacob Zuma out of office, after being recalled by the ANC. But the Guptas bought the plane with help of a $41million loan from Export Development Canada (EDC), Canada’s state-owned export-import bank. The EDC was helping Bombardier Inc, the Canadian aerospace firm, land the jet sale. But that turns out to have been a poor bet. The EDC now says the family defaulted on the loan in October and still owes the bank $27m. With an arrest warrant 
outstanding for Ajay Gupta, one of three brothers in the family, there are other worries too. “There is a very real concern that the aircraft may be used to escape justice or for some other unlawful means,” the EDC wrote in a recent application to a South African court seeking permission to ground the jet. But EDC first has to find the plane; the Guptas made the plane’s location data private after the EDC sought the jet’s exact whereabouts in a court filing. The disappearance of the plane is noted on FlightAware, a website that allows the public to track the location of planes around the world. “This aircraft (ZS-OAK) is not available for public tracking as per a request from the owner/operator,” the site says. The plane has been spotted in recent weeks at airports in India, Russia and Dubai. Ehsan Monfared, a Toronto aviation lawyer, says the case is unusual. Most people or entities who buy business jets of that size and value don’t have credit issues, and banks like EDC make sure they’re well protected. EDC, for its part, insists it performed a due diligence on the Guptas. Phil Taylor, a spokesperson for the EDC, said the bank’s motion seeking to ground the aircraft is due to be heard in Johannesburg on March 6, but he would not make any further comment. A separate court case is also under way in Britain. An effort to contact the Guptas through their 
London law firm was not successful. It’s an embarrassing incident for the bank. But Karyn Keenan, the director of Above Ground, a Canadian human-rights and development non-profit organisation, finds it ironic EDC is now worried about risking its reputation when it should have known of the corruption allegations against the Guptas that were circulating at the time of the loan deal. “This loan to the Guptas should never have been made,” she said. “Everybody in South Africa knew who the Guptas were. “They had been investigated by the South African 
authorities.” - Washington Post