“(Charlize) contacted me and asked me to do it,” the District 9 star said. Amazon’s dark action comedy, which hits cinemas in a week’s time, feature two of South Africa’s hottest exports. Theron and Copley play a ruthless businesswoman and a mercenary in Gringo. The film centres on mild-mannered businessman Harold Soyinka (David Oyelowo), who finds himself at the mercy of his back-
stabbing business colleagues back home, local drug lords and a morally conflicted mercenary. Crossing the line from law-abiding citizen to wanted criminal, Harold battles to survive the situation he finds himself in. Directed by Nash Edgerton, the film stars his brother Joel Edgerton and is produced by Theron. Copley said it had been an honour to have worked with Theron again. The pair first worked together in 2010. “We first worked together on a short I wrote and directed called Wikus and Charlize. It’s my character from District 9 trying to find Charlize in Hollywood because he wants to present an Afrikaans music award with her. “We’ve been friends since then. In Gringo, Charlize and my characters actually never meet. I’d love to work with her again, though, and we are on the lookout for something else to do together. I think she’s one of the greatest actresses of my generation.” Copley said he had enjoyed playing the role of a mercenary. Having played a number of exciting roles in his movie career so far, Copley still rates his role as Wikus van Der Merwe from District 9 as his all-time favourite. “There are so many reasons why. One is that I got to break the “Afrikaaners are racist” stereotype in international media. “The fact that Afrikaaners voluntarily gave up power in South Africa is still one of the most remarkable things that has occurred in my life time. I only half joke that it would be similar to white California’s giving California back to Mexico.” The 44-year-old actor said he dearly missed South Africa. He and his wife, SA model and actress Tanit Phoenix Copley, now live in Los Angeles. “I do miss SA, but we do come back a lot to visit and spend time with friends and family. In the past few years, what I actually miss most was the sense of hope and optimism there was during the Mandela presidency. “I miss feeling super proud to be South African. The whole world was looking to us, almost like some kind of evolutionary example of what humanity can achieve. Perhaps our new president can rekindle some of that.” Copley said he was enjoying fatherhood, having become father to a baby girl last year. “Our daughter has been an incredible blessing. I’ll never forget the first time she smiled at me when she was only a few weeks old. It was a profound experience. “She wasn’t smiling because of something funny or silly or because she wanted something. It felt sort of like a smile acknowledging being alive - a sort of “I see you”, combined with a deep joy at being alive. It’s all too easy to lose that as we grow older.”