The 30-year-old actor, singer and author is gearing up for the next chapter in what is fast becoming a glittering career. He will release his forthcoming album, You Will Not Die, on March 16 and will follow that with a European and southern hemisphere tour. Touré said the album took four-and-a-half years to make because his other creative pursuits - including a starring role in the controversial yet internationally-acclaimed movie Inxeba and the writing and release of his 2015 debut novel, Piggy Boy’s Blues - delayed finishing the album. “I started writing the album and then decided to write and act; it all got in the way,” said Touré. “I wanted the album to go against the acoustic style and to make an album that relied on an electronic sound.” The electric album explores different themes with some of the stand-out songs being the gospel-like Interloper, and the pop style of Clairvoyant. “In a sense I was exploring different genres because I would write the songs on my laptop, take them to the piano and then back again. I wanted to cripple myself as a writer. Once the song was written on the computer I had to take it to the piano to strip it away and see if it even worked musically.” Interloper took three years to make even though Touré said the lyrics were not difficult to write. “It took the longest to write even though the verses came easily. The chorus came in last because there was a guitar solo there but I decided to make it more glamorous. The song is about irrational jealousy and anonymous sex,” he said. Inxeba was banned after the Film and Publication Board’s Appeals Tribunal reclassified the film from 16LS to X18, which is the same classification as pornography. On March 6 the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria agreed to remove the “X” from the rating, meaning the film was allowed to be screened in cinemas again with an 18 classification. On Friday, the film returned to cinemas countrywide. Touré said he could not believe it when the film was initially banned. “The banning just made no sense to me. I just sat there gobsmacked that we have entered into this fascist and homophobic realm. Are we so homophobic that we are going to say the only place you can exist is in porn?” Touré went through the initiation ritual himself as a gay man - even though he did not want to go through it. He said he still receives homophobic messages on a daily basis. He said the process of making the film was a gruelling one, as filming often lasted up to 10 hours a day. “Creating any kind of art is painful. I just put so much of myself into it and use different techniques to understand the character. “The other is the method acting way where you have to dig deep into your past and your own trauma and find that authentic pain to use in the character,” said Touré. As for his future, Touré said he plans on acting more, making music and writing more books. “I’m going to be doing this for the rest of my life.’’