This follows weeks of violent protests in the township by backyarders who have been illegally occupying three plots of private land. On Wednesday, mayoral committee member member for safety and security JP Smith said the City of Cape Town had increased its security deployment in the Gugulethu, Nyanga and Philippi East areas because of the unrest. “It is not clear who is behind the protest action, but the city can confirm that its anti-land invasion unit held an operation in Nyanga and Gugulethu with the SAPS where pegs and structures linked to persistent land-invasion attempts in recent weeks were removed.” This came after calm was temporarily restored to Gugulethu following a meeting between Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and protest leaders last Thursday. However, protests resumed this week, with irate backyarders claiming the city was “playing games”. They accused De Lille of going back on her word to allow them to stay on the land until the issues of land ownership and relocation were resolved. “Now she (De Lille) tells the land owners to fence their properties and hire security to keep us out. “She wants war,” one of the leaders of the backyarders said. Some backyarders claim they have been on housing waiting lists for years but that people who came from other provinces and lived in informal settlements had been given priority in getting houses. Mayoral spokesman Xolani Koyana has dismissed these claims. “The mayor said the backyarders should compile a list and officials would check the names against the database for those who are on the housing list so that they benefit from the housing project in the area. Those not on the list will be registered,” he said. Backyarders told Weekend Argus they would stay put on the land. “We want houses and in the interim we want to live on this land until such time that we are moved to Charlesville,” said one. Gugulethu is subdivided into nine areas, of which eight are informal settlements. Backyarder Thobeka Mamputha, 52, said backyarders had been continually undermined by the city. “I have been living and chased out of people’s yards for many years. My cousin is now renting in Eerste Rivier in someone’s backyard because she had suffered too much abuse here in Gugulethu. “Now her son is wandering around because he also does not have a home. “We do not want to fight but we will shut Gugulethu down if the city continues to undermine us and not give us houses.”  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za 