Drone Racing Africa (DRA), a Cape Town-based school that trains people how to fly drones, has warned that consumers are not undergoing  training and learning how to fly drones properly. They simply break the laws because they fail to find out about it. DRA’s chief executive Simon Robinson says this has resulted in accidents and people losing drones they have paid at least R12 000 for because the machine flies off on its own if a pilot does not know how to handle the equipment. Some locals have already been fined R20 000 for breaking the country’s aviation laws, but no arrests have been made. Robinson says their Observatory-based academy has partnered with retailers to ensure consumers are trained to fly drones before they hit the streets. “We’ve realised there’s a huge demand from consumers who want to learn how to fly safely and how to control their drone. We have a theoretical proficiency course online. It’s 40 minutes and has seven sections that you go through,” said Robinson. The school also offers a four-hour on-site course. “You get some theory and you use a computer simulator where you practise flying a drone. Then you get to fly an actual drone for three hours,” he added. “But if you can’t fly after the course then I suggest you should not be flying a drone at all. You need to know how to use the controller if you want to avoid accidents.” DRA teaches its students to fly the world’s top drone producer, JDI, which recently launched its Mavic Air drone that includes a camera. Donovan Marais, a local distributor of JDI drones, said they were also concerned about consumer safety and were running workshops. “We are holding demo days, workshops and competency courses, to ensure the public is aware of local regulations, and make drone safety our top priority,” he said. Marais added that their drones were enhanced with safety nets such as infra-red sensors to “construct a 3D map of its environment for more precise hovering and better flight performance”. “The improved forward and backward dual camera vision systems can sense obstacles up to 20m away,” he said. “The Mavic Air has newly developed advanced pilot assistance systems that helps pilots avoid and bypass obstacles automatically, providing an extra layer of reassurance during flight.” But the main concern remains consumer behaviour, particularly those buying drones with cameras and using it unethically. This includes using drones for commercial use without having a licence to do so. “People are breaking the law. They are also using small drones for invasion of privacy,” he added. On any given Sunday, it is possible to find people flying drones at the Sea Point Promenade - which is illegal. Robinson explained: “You are not allowed to fly over people without their permission. You can’t fly within 50m of a road or a building. You may not fly within 2km of a national key point. “This is law and you can’t plead ignorance in a court when your drone flies off and injures somebody.” But the challenge, he said, is enforcing the law. Thus taking a proactive approach with retailers and consumers has been the best alternative. Robinson said they trained close to 5 000 children and adults last year about the basics of flying a drone. Braam Botha, operations manager at Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Industries (UAVI), also based in Cape Town, said drones are also being increasingly used for commercial ends, where laws are more flexible as long as safety measures have been secured. UAVI has used drones to capture aerial views of the Springbok rugby team as well as the Stormers rugby team to enhance their game. It has also used drones during rugby tournaments in Cape Town. “We help with sport analysis. With aerial footage of training you can see who are the fast runners and how the team plays,” said Botha. “We also film fans in the stadium and put that footage up on big screens and on the internet. We follow this stuff and it goes viral.” Botha said: “A drone is a tool that can be used to collect a massive amount of data. "We go to farms and do analysis of crops by looking at what we can’t see with the naked eye. “We can collect visual data that can be analysed so farmers can see where their plants are dry. "We can see from the sky where there are water shortages and plant sickness. “We can analyse urban areas to see what buildings have structural damage and what needs to be fixed. We work with companies to look at where they can expand buildings. "Using drones is changing whole industries where helicopters have been used for aerial observation, such as checking Eskom power lines," said Botha. “You can fly a drone and immediately observe on your laptop where there are faults and cable theft. You reduce your costs by at least two-thirds and don’t have to maintain a helicopter,” he added. Robinson said insurance is the next step for consumers who buy drones. With competency enhanced, they still need to ensure they are financially covered in case their drone injures a person or damages a property. He said DRA is finalising an insurance plan that would be underwritten by Old Mutual.