This is according to former public protector Thuli Madonsela, who addressed an event at Stellenbosch University’s business school ahead of Human Rights Day, this Wednesday. Madonsela, now the chair of social justice at the university’s law faculty, discussed different ways businesses could help make an impact  on advancing human rights issues. Madonsela said the processes under way to amend the constitution to allow for expropriation of land without compensation had to be handled in a manner that did not infringe on the rights of all relevant parties. Parliament’s Constitutional Review Committee has five months before it is to present the National Assembly with proposals on how to make the expropriation of land without compensation possible. “Access to land is a human rights issue; the right to property includes the right to have meaningful ways to acquire property. “It is also a human rights issue for those who are holding on to the land and those who want it - because it was historically taken from their ancestors,” she said. “So you are managing two rights and you have to make sure it is done in a humane way because not only do we have to comply with the constitution but we have to comply with the African charter on human rights. “It is also an emotional issue. A lot of wars have been fought over land. “We will have to handle this land question, along with other transformation questions in a manner that does not undermine peace in our nation. What I always fear is when there is any group in South Africa that has no stake in democracy, that group becomes a danger to society. “It is going to be important, where possible, we even bring in mediation so that there is parting with land willingly but with an understanding of, for those who are losing the land, what they are getting. If they feel like all that is happening in this deal is that they are losing, they will find another way to compensate so they become a threat to this country and to democracy. “It is  going to be a very intricate balance between those who are afraid of losing their land rights and those who expect to get land, firstly just balancing the aspirations themselves. “There are so many people in South Africa, about 57 million. Those who will be expecting to get land will probably be more than 20 million. “The reality is there is not enough land and an expectation has been created that the way out of poverty is through land, and I think that is a wrong expectation.” The fears of land owners also needed to be managed. “For those who are historically advantaged as well, we have... complexity,” she warned.  Some of the land stolen from black people many years ago had been transferred many times, “so today the people who own the land are not the beneficiaries of the illicit gift. It is going to be a very complex issue.” Madonsela said other challenges to human rights in the country’s current political climate centred on  corruption. “The biggest challenge to human rights is poverty and inequality; there are many people who fought for democracy who feel that human rights is a promise but reality is (different).” Some people felt they were in the same position as they were under apartheid. “One of the essential human rights is being free to flourish to your full potential, and a lot of our people are trapped in perpetual poverty. “Corruption is also a threat to human rights; it undermines the right to equality. It also takes away resources and policy processes, that should be engineered to reduce inequality and poverty.”