Durban - A Phoenix mother smacked, punched, kicked and stomped on her helpless 4-year-old daughter a total of 46 times, a horror 2 minute video that has gone viral reveals. The 25-year-old call centre agent and her 20-year-old lover have now been charged for attempted murder. They were initially charged for assault to cause grievous bodily harm but the charge was changed when the video surfaced. It was revealed on social media today that the man's car has been torched amid widespread outrage at the cruel beating. The couple have appeared in court and were granted bail of R3 000 each. But there are calls for bail to be now revoked. The girl, attacked by her mom for urinating on the bathroom floor, was kicked and stomped on 27 times, slapped 12 times and punched seven times. She was hit on her face, stomach, back, legs and buttocks by the enraged, screaming woman. Her boyfriend recorded the assault on his cellphone as he lay on the bed, his legs crossed. The woman can be heard shouting, "You are making me go off my head.... I am having a nervous breakdown in my life..." During the beating the boyfriend can be heard in the background telling the child to wake up from the floor and tell the mother that she peed on the bathroom floor. The child is quiet throughout the horrific ordeal, and tries several times to get up from the bedroom floor. But she keeps getting shoved back down. She cries loudly as her mother repeatedly kicks her. "Why can't you listen, why can't you go to the toilet," the mother yells. "The toilet is there, you were doing well all these days, you are doing extremely, extremely, extremely well, I was so proud." She goes onto to tell the child that one day she will receive a message that her mother is 'f****** dead." The woman then repeatedly kicks the child saying she can't take it in her life and that she is "losing it slowly" every single day of her life. 
The child lies on the floor screaming in pain. The mother continues to shout and swear at the child telling her she does not want to see her in the house and that she must go outside. "I want you out... I don't want you inside this house...f*** off outside," she yelled before asking her boyfriend if he is recording the incident. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that the charge has been changed to attempted murder and that the couple are due back in court next month. POST