The imminent closure of the Bellville South landfill, one of three available sites, has been confirmed by the City of Cape Town. But it said that, based on tests done in June, about 10 years of landfill capacity remained. “It will be necessary to create additional capacity elsewhere to prepare for existing landfills reaching capacity,” mayoral committee member for water and sanitation Xanthea Limberg said. No time frame was given. The Western Cape department of Environmental Affairs warned in April that the city was fast running out of landfill space. The city’s consumers generated almost 7 000 tons of waste per day in 2017. The Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry said waste disposal was the next crisis the City would have to face. “It is a crisis that should not exist because it was entirely predictable and plans should have been made. There are no unforeseen factors like the drought,” the chamber’s president, Janine Myburgh, said. She said the problem was partly caused by the overuse of plastic, which was now polluting land and sea. “I’m old enough to remember when we paid deposits on cool drink bottles. The system worked well and we should use it again. It will mean less waste and income for the poor.” Myburgh also called for the provision of recycling services to all parts of the city. The service is available only in a few suburbs. “In areas where there is recycling the clear recycling bags are much bigger than the black bags so that should give us a good idea of how effective recycling could be. It should also create many jobs for the unskilled.” Myburgh also mentioned the dumping of used motor oil at the Vissershok landfill site outside Dunoon. “This is completely unnecessary. The chamber recently entertained a German trade delegation and one of the members told us he had built a substantial business collecting and recycling old oil. We are dumping a good business opportunity into a landfill site,” she said. The city said its health department recorded 10 incidents of medical waste dumping in the past three years, varying from household diabetic waste to dumping on a larger scale from institutions. Cope city councillor Farouk Cassiem said the city’s solid waste management department was one of the loss-making departments and missed an opportunity of turning waste into cash. Cassiem said the city was not recycling enough and needed to do more to catch up with efforts embarked upon in Joburg, where households were issued colour-coded bins to encourage recycling. “We are not incinerating, recycling and creating value from the garbage. We’re living in an era where there’s technological advances and innovative ways to handle waste but the city is not doing enough. We allow things to reach a crisis before we act. And the next thing that will happen is that ratepayers will be slapped with surcharges,” he said. Cassiem is a member of the city’s sustainability and resilience cluster committee which has made rec- ommendations on various environmentally-linked issues, including waste management. “It’s frustrating that our rec- ommendations are not taken seriously, he added. Cassiem said the city’s silence or inaction on waste management plans was a matter of concern. Weekend Argus