Conservationist and actress Shannon Elizabeth moved to Cape Town in 2016 and recently relaunched her conservation organisation Animal Avengers as part of her new Shannon Elizabeth Foundation. Elizabeth plans to incorporate an initiative she has dubbed Wildlife Reviews as part of the foundation, with the first being the Rhino Review. “Rhino Review will have everything all in one place and sort of be the encyclopedia of rhinos. We’ll highlight specific programmes making the biggest impact, and most importantly trust and accountability, so the general public can know who they should be supporting,” said Elizabeth. According to the Department of Environmental Affairs there has been a decline in the number of rhinos poached, with 508 poached for the year ending August 31 compared with 691 for the same period last year. Rhino Review will focus on the current situation of the five living species of rhino in Africa and Asia, and will be followed by reviews on great apes, big cats and oceans. The review will be in the form of a website and later application, featuring downloadable PDF information that can be used in multiple languages for education. According to the foundation website the Wildlife Reviews will “host regular summits for each individual review in order to assemble like-minded people, program directors and the public to debate opportunities for making a real and lasting impact.” Elizabeth teamed up with writer and long-time conservationist Peter Borchert to compile the expansive website, which will launch in October. Borchert is the founder of the Africa Geographic publication and said the website would put the specifics of rhinos in layperson’s terms. He has traced the rhino back to its first existence around 30000BC and created an interactive timeline of the rhino. “We’ve traced the areas that rhino’s have historically covered to tell their story. A lot of conservation issues are dealt with in niche publications, which makes it difficult for the layperson to understand,” he said. Borchert has included current talking points to solving the poaching crisis and what the public can do to help organisations that are contributing towards conservation. Weekend Argus