“I grew up in Portlands, Mitchells Plain, where we were often told that we may amount to nothing given our circumstances. No race, gender, or circumstances should ever define you. I feel ladies of all sizes and kids of all backgrounds should never let anything hinder their dreams or aspirations,” she said. Come October 6, Manuel will be flaunting it on the African Fashion International runway in Johannesburg as a plus-size model. Being selected as one of the very few to walk an international runway is one of her biggest achievements this year. African Fashion International (AFI) was established as part of an unequivocal determination to propel and restore refined African fashion brands on the global stage. A highlight for Manuel will be taking her mother with her, who will be flying for the first time. “She has been to every show I’ve done since the age of 14 and this will be a very proud moment for me to have my mama by my side, watching me on an international platform,” Manuel said. AFI marketing manager Roshnee Pillay said: “South Africa and Africa, in particular, is a very diverse continent with people of all races, religions cultures, who come in different sizes. We need to embrace our diversity and celebrate our individuality. “Inclusive representation makes everyone, regardless of their shape or size, feel confident in themselves,” Pillay said. Bridget Pickering, designer of fashion brand Ruff Tung, the collection Manuel will be modelling for, said the models that it selects need to have a message of self-love and body positivity. Manuel’s love for the industry started at an early age. She entered local pageants until she turned 18. She said entering enabled her to help her unemployed parents. “In the years that followed, the weight crept in and I was no longer marketable as a model. I had my contract terminated at the age of 21 as I was too ‘fat’ for the industry. My confidence dropped. “The most rewarding part of what I do is seeing how much it inspires other women. We’re all grappling with one or other gripe we have about our bodies or features we see as flaws. But according to whose standards are these flaws? We need to redefine standards of beauty because our differences make us unique and beautiful,” she said. Weekend Argus