Cape Town - Mixed martial arts (MMA) fighters are often known for their brute strength, rather than their heart. But this week, the local Extreme Fighting Championship (EFC) fraternity rallied around one of their own after he survived a brutal attack which stands to threaten his flourishing career. EFC lightweight athlete, Sibusiso "The Monster" Mdoko, is currently recovering from his injuries after he was attacked in an attempted hijacking in Gugulethu township in the early hours of Sunday, September 2, 2018. Mdoko sustained serious injuries to his face and hands after being stabbed by two unknown assailants wielding knives and broken bottles. The athlete was attacked while he was asleep in his car outside a friend's house on Sunday morning. "I forgot to put on the central locking. The next thing I knew there were two men inside my car attacking me. They knew who I was because they kept saying to each other: 'This guy has money, he's always on TV,'" Mdoko said. He said that the perpetrators - who initially attempted to steal his car - became more violent after he refused to give them his bank account information. "The one asked the other for a knife to kill me because I didn't want to give then my banking information. They tortured me to try to get this from me, and kept stabbing me with a broken bottle. I tried to fight back, but lost consciousness during the attack," said Mdoko. His attackers fled the scene after two passers-by came to Mdoko's assistance. The popular EFC fighter - who has been described by his fellow fighters as a "courageous athlete and role model to many" - was transported to a nearby hospital where he received treatment for facial injuries and cuts and injuries to his hands. The fighter damaged a tendon in his hand. Picture: Supplied While he sustained no permanent internal damage, Mdoko now faces the possibility of not being able to compete competitively again after severing a tendon in his hand. The attack has been a double-blow for the fighter, who recently began a new career as an electrician - which could also be threatened if his hands do not heal fully. "I don't know what's going to happen when I have to fight (with this injury) because the tendons are damaged," Mdoko said. After news of the attack surfaced, fighters and officials from EFC launched a crowdfunding Back-a-Buddy campaign to assist with his medical costs. In just two days, R 5471,15 of the R40 000 fundraising target has been raised. Constantia Insurance Group, an official partner to the EFC organisation, have also agreed to assist with Mdoko’s medical costs. 