Cape Town - In the world of #MeToo where discussions around sexual harassment and workplace conduct have become commonplace and men are being held to account for their actions, David Mamet’s play Oleanna could not be more relevant. In Oleanna, a female college student, Carol (Nicole Fortuin) gets into a heated discussion with her male professor, John (Alan Committie) about his teaching style and lecture content. Their volatile relationship quickly transcends into a discussion around status, censorship,  abuse and a charge of sexual harassment. It examines the explosive and relevant contemporary issues of the assumption of power, intellectual freedom and sexual politics against the background of academic, institutional and structural inequality. First staged in May 1992 in Cambridge, Massachusetts the drama has found new legs with the ongoing #MeToo Movement and begs the question is the central theme of sexual harassment or overreaction bordering on extreme political correctness? Director Greg Karvellas said he leaned on Committie’s training as a former school teacher to help develop the role. “He’s able to provide more of an insight into the character and it helps to expedite the process and with Nicole, the two have real chemistry.” He adds: “I’ve always wanted to work with Alan because we’ve been friends for years and Alan should be doing dramatic roles. Both him and Nicole were gracious enough to audition for me multiple times because there were four actors that I had in mind.” Karvellas said the timing of the play of the play in relation to current discourse was fortuitous. “I’ve always wanted to do a Mamet. I love his writing and when the opportunity came up to do Oleanna I took it, besides the fact that we should be doing it anyway with all that’s going on.” Karvellas’ attraction to the play stems from the diversity of viewpoints put forth in the text and said ultimately what transpires between John and Carol was up to the audience to decide. “It’s a play about power. John has it and Carol wants it and it leaves you asking what is the truth and whose truth is it? “The actors have already taken their decisions and decided what has happened now it is up to us to have the debate after the show and that’s my hope for audiences is that they have those discussions afterward,” he said. Oleanna is on at the Fugard Studio Theatre from September 14 for a limited season and carries an age restriction of no under 16's. Weekend Argus