* Due to the violent and graphic nature of the videos shared on social media, IOL has taken the decision not to publish the videos Durban - Two students have been murdered in separate incidents at KwaZulu-Natal universities at the weekend. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Westville campus, a 22-year-old student was stabbed to death at a residence in the early hours of Saturday morning. A 20-year-old student who had initially fled from police on campus subsequently handed himself over to police. He is due to appear in the Pinetown Magistrate's Court on Monday. UKZN spokesperson, Normah Zondo, said the student was found stabbed in the kitchen of the residence. Paramedics were called in but the student had succumbed to his injuries. Zondo said while the police investigation continues, the university's Risk Management Services will also conduct an internal investigation into the matter. "University management is gravely concerned and saddened by this tragedy. Management extends its deepest condolences to the family and friends of the deceased," said she said. Meanwhile, gruesome videos have emerged of a reported University of Zululand student being assaulted by a mob after allegedly killing another at a residence on Sunday afternoon. Central SRC president at UKZN, Sandile Zondi, said the incident was deeply traumatic for students, particularly those who had witnessed the murder. He said the SRC will be visiting the residence on Monday to see to the students who may need counselling. According to reports, the two students were heard fighting before the stabbing. "It's a sad day when students - future professionals - cannot resolve their issues without resorting to violence. This and the incident at UniZulu makes it clear that we emanate from a violent society but we urge student to choose life. Dealing with problems in a violent way brings the possibility of someone losing their life and you locking your future in jail," he said. He added that the SRC would also like to pass their condolences to the families of the deceased students. The Mercury