Oakes was furious. However, when she determinedly went in search of her family’s belongings she “stumbled” on an unexpected blessing worth far more to her than the missing possessions. “It was a Saturday morning, and I got into my car determined to get my stuff back. I vividly remember driving along a gravel road to a nearby community. The first thing that caught my eye was a barely clothed toddler. “He, along with 24 others in a similar state, greeted me, all bright-eyed and hopeful ‘that this aunty has brought us treats’. My anger immediately dissipated and shame overcame me, shame that I was moaning over a few stolen things, yet there were barely clothed and hungry children living on my doorstep.” She decided there and then that she had had an important epiphany; soon afterwards her non-profit organisation, Alms Of Love, was born. Oakes holds down a full-time job and runs the NGO in her spare time. She focuses on making a difference in the Parkwood community, and despite a lack of financial support the NGO has provided food for many children and widows, donated food parcels to destitute families, and runs a youth programme for a group of pre-teens in Constantia. Alms Of Love held a three-day camp for 25 underprivileged children in December last year, and Oaks hopes it will become an annual event. “What started out in a small community of 40 people - starting a food-drive in Parkwood and providing food parcels to very poor families - has spiralled into something far greater,” said Oakes. She and a team of women volunteers have assisted people further afield. After hearing of the needs of a community in the town of Douglas in the Northern Cape, Oakes and the team travelled there and cared for elderly women, provided toiletries to more than 100 girls, and food parcels and clothing to families. She now also provides counselling to the homeless, and plans to open a centre where the poor can receive skills training and trauma counselling. “My dream is to do this (run the NGO) full-time. I could accomplish so much more if I were to get financial support. I've knocked on many doors but I haven't received any support yet. I use my family’s finances to sustain the organisation.” Lack of funds keeps her awake at night as she thinks of how to help the “forgotten and the underprivileged”. “There were many times that I wanted to give up. This month specifically has been extremely challenging, as our family vehicle that we use for the NGO broke down and we were charged close to R30000 to fix it. We had to ask neighbours, family and friends to assist us. This journey has been very humbling but we persevere.” With every victory or smile of gratitude comes “unspeakable joy”. This keeps Oakes and her community angels going. Weekend Argus