The MEC of economic development, who was announced as his party’s preferred premier candidate, spoke to Weekend Argus about his vision were he to be elected. In the past electoral term, the province has faced challenges around safety, sanitation, unemployment and spatial planning. “Crime is one of my focus areas, the new opportunity is with someone like Dan (Plato) going to the city, that’s his passion, and having worked together will bode well for a good city and province partnership where the focus is starting to make this place a safe one to live in,” he said. Cape Town and surrounds has become a major technology hub in the country, with everything from e-payment to ticketing start-ups born here. “I love innovation and technology and issues like these will be a challenge to our tech entrepreneurs to join us, with the kind of things that have been done in the city, with the metro police, it bodes well to come up with a plan to make this city a better place. “If you talk about issues like sanitation, poverty and the real issues facing people in this region, you know that if someone in that situation gets a job, it makes a major difference in their lives. “So I will continue to enable an environment where entrepreneurs will thrive and can create jobs,” he said. The party has come under fire for the low representation of women in high-ranking positions, both in the city council and provincial governments. “We are in a another process as a party for people to make themselves available to the provincial legislature; our selection panel needs to when identifying a competent women they give her the opportunity and that gives me an amazing slate to choose from. Imagine if they give me a group of MPLs to choose my cabinet from and there isn’t the diversity and depth in it,” he said. Although Winde is the DA’s premier candidate, Bonginkosi Madikizela remains the provincial leader, creating a possible two-centres of power dynamic. “Bongi and I spoke about this before hand, it was a case of ‘if you win you have my support and vice versa’ and your leader says, ‘you are our candidate’ and it hits you that the magnitude of what is in front of you,” he said. There is always is a need to build unity, so a leader’s role, Bongi’s as provincial leader, is to manage the aspirations of a team you lead and allow them to grow within the system without disrupting it,” Winde said. Weekend Argus