Nuon Solar Team from the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands came first, clocking more than 4000km. They are current world champions as well as the defending champions of the solar challenge. Tshwane University of Technology was the best placed South African team, clocking in over 2000km and placing fourth overall. The teams set off from their stop in Swellendam in the morning and made their way to the rest stop in Bredasdorp where they began doing runs on the loop course, which goes past the Cape Agulhas lighthouse before making their way to the finish line in Stellenbosch. Five South African teams took on solar cars from Japan, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and Switzerland. South Africa is one of only a few countries where high school teams compete in what is typically a university challenge. Solar Challenge founder and director Winstone Jordaan said the event was “incredibly challenging” and commended all the competitors for spending months building their cars and planning their routes through South Africa. The CPUT Solar Flyers team from the Cape Peninsula University of Technology competed for the first time this year. The team consists of two mechatronics students, seven mechanical students and a public relations and marketing student, who is one of two females on the team. While the team finished in last place and were unable to add to their 19.2km total yesterday due to mechanical issues, spirits were high throughout the challenge. CPUT team spokesperson Shereleen Januarie said not being able to compete yesterday was a “bittersweet” moment. “We only got the car running on day seven of the challenge, but we really didn’t mind because we got this car to actually run and not just sit on the showroom floor. “The biggest lesson we learned was that we needed a bigger team and everyone needs to do everything and we musn’t be stuck in our roles.” Another bright South African group, Sonke, is a high school team that competed for the first time in any solar car event. Fifty students aged 13 to 19 from St Alban’s College and St Augustine’s LEAP School in Pretoria came together to build their own solar car. The team placed sixth and beat City University of Hong Kong, CPUT and Central University of Technology. Sonke team manager and teacher at St Alban’s College Rob Lodge said he was proud of his team. “They’ve been working hard for months and to qualify ahead of universities is an honour. “Despite that, we chose to leave last on the start line,” he said. There was drama on Friday while at the Sedgefield campsite and because of an infringement of privacy, the Nuon Solar Team from the Netherlands had a 117.4km penalty imposed on them. The 2018 event marked a decade of solar car challenges in South Africa. Teams from across the world brought their solar-powered cars to the biennial event to compete to cover the biggest distance across public roads, heading from Pretoria to Sasolburg, through Bloemfontein to Gariep Dam, and on to Middelburg and Graaff-Reinet.