This is the word from new Western Cape police ombudsman Johan Brand. Brand was officially sworn in at the Western Cape High Court by Judge President John Hlophe on Thursday. Speaking to Weekend Argus ahead of the swearing in ceremony, Brand said he had been with SAPS since the age of 17 with experience as a crime fighter spanning more than 32 years. He was the Station Commander at the Mitchells Plain police station from 2010 to 2014 and later the Cluster Commander for Khayelitsha from 2014 until his appointment as the provincial ombudsman. Brand said while he was entering a very different role as ombudsman, he has vast experience of fighting crime on the ground. “I have traded my uniform for a suit and tie but my aim remains to look at police efficiency and complaints against SAPS and metro Police to ensure that we improve on those inefficiencies,” said Brand. The police ombudsman has a legal mandate from the constitution as well as the Western Cape Community Safety Act of 2013. “We cannot act as lawyers for members of the public and this often leads to frustration. We have to remain impartial and independent” said Brand. The police ombudsman is very different from the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) he said, adding that the ombudsman only investigates cases but it is ultimately up to SAPS to institute action against police officers. Only IPID’s processes will result in criminal prosecution. The mandate of the ombudsman is to investigate and refer complaints to the relevant institutions for action. The public must learn the culture of being a complainant. We have people who abuse our staff when things do not go their way. “We cannot take for granted that the public or the police are lying or telling the truth. That is why we investigate,” said Brand. He said the police ombudsman’s key mandate was to work with police officers and the public with the aim of enhancing relations between the parties. “I often meet with police clusters, CPFs, and we engage the public to explain the workings of the police ombudsman,” said Brand. Looking back at his illustrious career in Mitchell’s Plain and Khayelitsha, Brand said what always make the job worthwhile was when residents greeted him on the streets and recognise the good he has done and still tries to do. Weekend Argus