Cape Town - October marks the start of Cape Town’s premier film festival where filmmakers both local and international alike will showcase their feature films and documentaries for the city’s avid movie-going audience. The Cape Town International Film Market and Festival will screen 80 feature films, 20 documentaries, and 66 short films across two weeks. Born in the Democratic Republic of the Congo director David Kabale’s film, Captive (Ko nkanga), will have its world premier at the festival and speaks to the relevance of the ongoing #MeToo movement. Captive (Ko nkanga) delves into the story of an immigrant woman who moves into her aunt’s house and experiences sexual abuse at the hands of her in law. The abuse forces her into a choice as to whether she should submit or fight. “There are these uncles that just take advantage of young girls and they just have to submit. This is their home and it’s supposed to be the one place where you feel safe.” Reflecting on the discourse around sexual harassment, Kabale said deep consideration for the plight of he victims had to be taken into account. “We have to consider why they come out now especially in our industry and consideration has to be taken for how we shoot these things on film too.” Kabale wants audiences to come away from the film feeling more empowered. “Someone I’ve known for a while spoke to me only recently and told me she had been molested and I hope that for audiences seeing this film, more women will speak up and men will realise that it’s on us to do better,” he said. There are 10 South African feature films on the official selection line up with Jahmil X.T Qubeka’s, Sew the Winter to My Skin,  while other superb African films to look out for include Supa Modo and Rafiki. Supa Modo is the story of a young girl who dreams of one day becoming a superhero but has her dreams shattered by the threat of a terminal illness. Her village rallies behind her to make her dreams come true in this debut film by Likarion Wainana, which has won several awards at international film festivals. Inspired by the Ugandan short story Jambula Tree, Rafiki is a tale of love and friendship between two women, Kena and Ziki. The film debuted at the Cannes Film Festival earlier this year and was banned by the Kenyan film and classification board for its homosexual theme. The CTIFMF runs from October 9 to 19 at the V&A Waterfront. Weekend Argus