In a little over a month’s time, Plato will replace Patricia de Lille, making it necessary for the party to replace yet another MPL following Lennit Max’s resignation in July. There has been talk of a possible provincial cabinet reshuffle with insiders stating the party was mulling over whether to bring in someone from within the ranks or someone from the city’s caucus. In her eight years as Premier, Helen Zille has had two cabinet reshuffles, the first in 2011 when Plato was brought in as MEC for Community Safety from the city, having served as mayor. He was replaced by outgoing De Lille. And the second time was in 2014, when Nomafrench Mbombo and Theuns Botha swopped with the former leaving Cultural Affairs and Sports for the Health portfolio. “A reshuffle is unlikely with elections around the corner. The Premier will likely bring in someone with the intention to move them into that portfolio without moving all the others,” said a party insider. Plato said it needed someone who could build on his work. “The major problem with that portfolio is that we do not have operational powers, authority or control,” he said. “I had to work very closely to build relationships, build bridges with security agencies and I think we have done that and we have masterminded oversight and built relationships with communities. We have started a lot of projects and that is a good basis for whoever replaces me to focus on.” DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said: “It’s the prerogative of the premier to choose the person to replace Dan, but we are a party of due processes and we will start a process to replace him, and we must either choose whether we call for nominations so that those who are interested can forward their names or we do a strategic swop and take someone from the City of Cape Town, and that is what is we are still discussing.” Zille’s spokesperson Marcellino Martin said the premier was in consultations and would make an announcement when she was ready. The party launched its Western Cape provincial campaign outside the Cape Town stadium where DA leader Mmusi Maimaine said it was only fitting that its campaign begin in a province where the party has shown what it can do. Maimane praised Zille and De Lille for the work they have done in ensuring good governance. “We will travel to every corner of the country telling South Africans what they can expect from a DA government, and explaining why only the DA can bring change that builds one South Africa for all,” he said. Weekend Argus