Cape Town - There was a heavy police presence at the Western Cape high Court where alleged wife killer, Rob Packham, made a brief appearance. Packham, 57, was arrested at his Constantia home on Thursday for allegedly breaching his bail conditions. According to reports, he spent the long weekend in the holding cells of the Diep River Police Station. Police confirmed that a warrant of arrest was issued after he allegedly intimidated a witness in the murder case of his wife Gill Packham, committed on February 22. Gill’s body was found in the boot of a burning BMW vehicle she owned near the Diep River railway station, after she was reported missing. On the day she went missing, February 22, she left home for work at Springfield Convent School in Wynberg at around 7am. Packham was arrested for the murder and released on bail of R50 000. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. State advocate Susan Galloway told Judge Taswell Papier that the State was making an urgent application on Section 66, a bail inquiry. She asked for a postponement until Friday. Packham’s lawyer, Joshua Greeff, said he would also like a postponement to allow him time to prepare. He said the State only handed him its papers on Tuesday morning. Packham exited the lift on the third floor at the high court surrounded by police officers. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Five officers escorted him to the courtroom. He rushed to avoid the media, walking swiftly to the sound of camera shutters clicking, nearly tripping over one of the reporters. Judge Papier ordered that he remain in custody until his next appearance on Friday. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus