Cape Town - Cape Town is on lockdown after various areas in the city erupted in chaos in the total shutdown protests against poverty and crime. Police used stun grenades, water cannons and rubber bullets to subdue protesters in Bonteheuwel. "In Bonteheuwel, on the corner of Bluegum Road and Jakes Gerwel Drive, eight people were arrested for public violence following run-ins with police that resulted in the disruption of traffic," the Western Cape police said in a statement. Hanover Park Avenue is closed at Turfhall Road, Turfhall Road is closed at Pook Road and there is no traffic towards Hanover Park Avenue. Protestors who blocked traffic on Jakes Gerwel Drive Southbound at Bluegum Avenue have since moved out of the roadway. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. One of the organisers of Tuesday's shutdown, Gatto Wanza, said the situation in Bonteheuwel escalated because police were preventing protesters from moving towards the highway. "They are quite comfortable in allowing us to protest inside Bonteheuwel, but they are clearly protecting the interests of the wealthy by protecting the highway," Wanza said. He confirmed that the situation in Bonteheuwel remained tense while protests in other areas were proceeding relatively peacefully. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to the mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith, there are approximately 300-350 protestors across the city. Govan Mbeki Road is closed between Caltex Garage and Snoekies where protesters are reportedly blocking the roadway and in Hanover Park, Govan Mbeki Road is closed at Becker Road and at Jan Smuts Drive. IOL