With dam water levels rising steadily, the City of Cape Town asked the national department of water and sanitation to “conservatively” lower the current level 6b water restrictions. However, spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said it would be “premature” to lower the restrictions as the rainy season had not ended. “We still don’t know what will happen in the next few weeks in terms of rain, even though the water situation has improved slightly. Therefore, a decision was taken to wait until end September for a review of the situation,” Ratau said. The city also proposed that the water restriction levels for urban users be slightly relaxed from 45% to 40%, which, it said, would help provide some degree of financial relief. “Restriction levels are linked to dam levels, and restriction tariffs are linked to the volume of water used by Cape Town. This means that, if the restriction level is reduced, individual water use is expected to increase as the tariff decreases. “So more water is likely to be sold and this ensures that the city receives the same total income required to maintain and repair infrastructure,” said MMC for water and sanitation Xanthea Limberg. The government sets down restriction levels, currently at a reduction of 45% for domestic users. But the city opted to set the tariffs and basic charges, not according to usage as the common practice, but on a property value threshold of R1million and above and according to the size of the water pipe. Water tariffs shot up from R4 per kilolitre to six kilolitres a month in January, to R26.25 in February and R28.90 from July. This is why the STOP COCT campaign has taken on the city. Spokesperson Sandra Dickson said in terms of the Water Services Act punitive tariffs were not to be instituted as the first step of water tariffs. “It is not equitable for the city to link water restriction levels with tariffs the way it stands at present and STOP COCT calls on the city to listen to the people and drop the pipe levy and reduce the punitive 0-6kilolitre tariff to a more reasonable amount.” The charge based on the size of the water pipe means that residents in relatively poor areas would pay the same amount as those in affluent areas if they have the same size of a water pipe. The city has refuted claims that it was raking in more money from the high tariffs but its financial statements for July alone show it recovered just below R210.4million for water. Weekend Argus