Cape Town - The City of Cape Town is making R4.172 million in cash available to the minstrel associations for their events, with a further R1.3 million in support services and the waiver of rental hire costs for City-owned venues. The mayoral committee voted on the cash and support package on Tuesday. "The City advises that all requests received through the event support application system are considered by the Special Events Committee (SpevCo) within their delegations of recommendations for support to the Mayoral Committee," the City of Cape Town said in a statement. "The City took into account the Constitution, the Municipal Finance Management Act, the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, the City’s Credit Control and Debt Collection Policy, the Events Policy and other considerations when they reviewed the applications," the City said. The money would be divvied up among the various associations. "Associations that have not applied for funding will have to follow the administrative process - funding will only be allocated if applicants are compliant as per the City’s relevant policies," the City said. "SpevCo reviews event applications in line with the conditions outlined in the Events Policy. The Events Policy has been developed and guided by applicable legislation and regulations, including the Safety at Sports and Recreational Events Act (SASREA). "It must be highlighted that associations must also follow the event permit process, which is separate to the event support process. An event permit may be approved or rejected based on the guidelines in the City’s Events Policy and the Events By-law. This includes, among others, the event date; proposed venue; the impact on the surrounding area, community and environment; and the competing demands on available City services during the festive holiday period. It is the responsibility of the event organiser to apply for an event risk categorisation from the South African Police Service as defined in Section 6 of the SASREA. "Each year the minstrel events resonate with families and communities across Cape Town as thousands of people, including tourists, fill the streets to watch the colourful and entertaining marches," the City said. "The City’s support will also allow communities to showcase our rich cultural diversity, while creating employment opportunities in the garment-making, events, catering and transport industries," City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for safety and security; and social services JP Smith said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus