Durban - Durban is known for its curries, and at Jeera undoubtedly has it all, claiming the top spot after defeating nine other popular eateries at the 2018 Durban Coca Cola Bunny Chow Barometer challenge at Blue Lagoon recently. The venue was abuzz with activity as thousands of curry lovers converged at the city’s hotspot. However Jeera fast became a firm favourite having sold out on their curried lamb bunny chows in record time. “The vibe and energy was electrifying and it was a fantastic team effort. We are hugely grateful to be recognised as the restaurant serving Durban’s best bunny chow and we look forward to welcoming more guests to enjoy our scrumptious offerings,” said head chef Kevindren Pillay. What makes the curries at Jeera so moreish is the secret blend of fresh, pure spices. “The secret is in the spices and our restaurant is known for its authentic blends, and that sets us apart. All spices are ground and mixed in our kitchen using high quality produce,” explained Pillay. In addition to winning the best bunny chow title, Jeera receives prizes valued at R30 000 including a soft restaurant make-over. General manager at SunSquare Suncoast hotel, Lettisha Singh said she felt ecstatic about being the title winner adding that her team had “put their best foot forward” resulting in a successful and well deserved win. “My team showed complete commitment and dedication to this challenge and I applaud their efforts in winning this title. They sold a whopping 500 bunny chows and the best part was that people wanted more. It just goes to show that they definitely had the winning formula,” says Singh. She added that much attention was given to the presentation and added value of each bunny chow package. “We were on site by 6am to set-up and decorate our stand. We had hostesses serve complimentary shots of Bombay crush to patrons in queue. We also offered a complimentary sojee (Indian dessert) with every bunny chow purchased,” said Singh. KZN events manager for Coca Cola Beverages South Africa, Kas Naidoo congratulated the Jeera team adding that their win was “well deserved”. “Well done to our 2018 winners on achieving this accolade and we are certain that this would add great value to their restaurant,” said Naidoo. Tsogo Sun’s Head of operations KZN hotels, Mike Jackson was thrilled with the results saying that the exceptional teamwork from SunSquare Suncoast team was phenomenal. “This was a first time entry and we are very proud that they walked away winners. This bears testament to the fine quality at Jeera,” said Jackson. Daily News