The failure by the CSA to get a league off the ground this year again could signal disaster for cricket in the country, said the official, who preferred to remain anonymous. He slammed the CSA board and its CEO, Thabang Moroe, for their “inability” and “lack of foresight and courage” in launching the league. “It’s a massive disaster if the league is not floated again this year because, as South African cricket, we will fall even further behind the rest of the world.” After months of uncertainty, the board will confirm the fate of the tournament this afternoon. The new league, which failed to launch last year amid concerns of financial sustainability over the absence of a broadcast deal, is now at risk of suffering the same fate with multiple factors hindering its planned November start. Several investors have threatened to take the CSA to court over its handling of the tournament after the sudden postponement last year. The CSA is now battling with time constraints. “It’s common knowledge that the future models of cricket will see the larger portions of revenue generated from these T20 leagues and not from bilateral cricket,” said the former official. “This is already the case in India with the IPL. In England, if you look at the current series, for example, they moved it away from the prime of their summer in June/July, when T20 cricket is now played, and they played it in August and September. “So, test match cricket and international bilateral cricket has been moved away from the prime utilised windows to make space for these T20 leagues. “Should the tournament once again be postponed, CSA risk the possibility of losing the November/December window and it’s going to be very difficult to get it back.” Apart from major financial spin-offs for the country, young and up-and-coming cricketers are also set to lose out. Proteas captain Faf Du Plessis emphasised the importance for the CSA to get the T20 tournament off the ground. “It’s important for the youth of this country to have a crack. I’ve been in the IPL for eight years and I can see the window closing on SA players. “They’re looking at Australian and English players which means we need a tournament like the Big Bash League where the players can perform well to get recognition. I’m a big believer in transparency and being open and honest with what’s going on.” The former official believes owners of the various teams in the T20 tournament as well as the players have lost total confidence in the CSA board. “They are struggling to get players on board, which might be one of the reasons why this year may not see the launch again. If the board postpones it again, they should do the honourable thing: resign and walk away from it.” The former official believes a lack of courage by the board resulted in the postponement of the tournament last year. “With the owners and the players secured, the readiness of the stadiums and everything else in place, there should have been a tournament and a broadcaster would have surely come on board.” It has also been divulged that the CSA had adequate finances to go ahead with last year’s tournament. “CSA’s reserves built over the past three years and standing at around R1 billion at one stage, meant that they had enough money to float the league on their own steam,” said the official. “The poor leadership and failure of the board has cost cricket severely. The league would have undoubtedly attracted foreign direct investment into the country. “Hong Kong City Sports, which owns one of the franchises, had announced a $100m (about R1.5bn) investment”. Weekend Argus