Livestock has died and fruit trees have shrivelled up under the scorching sun while the land becomes arid. Banks and the co-op are turning farmers away. Money for fodder for animals as well as food for their families is unavailable. “Andries le Roux was the strong one; he kept us going. He was the one we turned to trying to stay positive,” said Christiaan van der Vyver, a farmer on the Moordenaarskaroo . Thekkn, one morning almost a year ago, he received a phone call. Le Roux’s’ wife discovered his body near a pump. He had shot himself. He was 38 years old. Earlier last month Van der Vyver drove to Laingsburg to meet other farmers including Pieter Theron, chairman of the Laingsburg Agricultural Society, Doret Smit, Du Toit Malherbe - and two employees of the local Koup Producers’ Co-op, manager André Coetzee and his colleague, Jodi Simon. The picture painted around the table was bleak. Van der Vyver took Independent Media on a tour of various farms where the barren soil was dotted with dead fruit trees and vineyards. Dried mud and stone was all that remained of the the mighty Buffalo River. “This drought cycle is unparallelled, much worse than the 1961 drought. This is a total disaster, (we) are calling for special government measures,” farmer Jeremiah Crafford said. Crafford has farmed in the Kareebome for decades. He has recorded rainfall figures meticulously during the years. The average annual rainfall used to be 250mm. Last year it was 111mm. “Eight years ago, in 2010, I thought things couldn’t be better. Then the decline started,” Van der Vyver said. According to Jodi Simon, farmers were forced to drill deeper for water and the co-op sells increasingly stronger pumps to draw the water from deeper. Thirty years ago 60m was deep enough to bring enough water to the surface. Now they drill at 200m levels, which means more expensive pumps. Yolanda Conradie told of days wondering where their next meal would come from. Sheep farmers are grateful for a fodder donation from organisations like Gift of the Givers and Afriforum. The church has started supplying food to once independent families. Weekend Argus