Once extended, it would run from Blue Lagoon to the harbour mouth. Sithole also confirmed a R30m tender was about to go out for the beautification of the Rivertown Precinct. This area runs from behind the central beachfront hotels down to the International Conference Centre. “The construction of the promenade is on track and will take Durban to another level. Running from Blue Lagoon to the harbour, no city in the world is going to match our beachfront promenade. It will not only attract investment and tourism, but is also to promote a healthy environment for our residents.” The extension should be complete by November next year, in time for the December holiday season. “It’s going to be awesome when completed, it will add value and distinguish Durban from other coastal cities in Africa - they will not match us.” Insisting that the city was intent on delivering a clean and safe agenda, he also confirmed further investment was about to be unlocked with a tender going out to beautify the area from the beachfront towards the ICC “A contractor will be appointed by November and work should begin by early next year in relation to beautification of the the Rivertown Precinct.” With regard to the Point area, particularly along the infamous Mahatma Gandhi Road, Sithole said: “We are dealing with the bad buildings and the clean up of that road. We also want to beautify the area.” He said a contract was also about to go out to tender for this project. “All these projects will increase investor confidence,” he said yesterday. The Durban Point Waterfront Development is a joint venture with a Malaysian company, the Durban Point Development Company (DPDC), and the R35billion facelift of the south beachfront area is set to include a number developments, including upmarket residential property and business park, restaurants, a hotel and leisure facilities. The extended promenade, starting from the Moyo Pier to the northern breakwater (harbour entrance channel) will be a continuous elevated structure, spanning 750m by 30m wide. Provision has been made below the structure for the watersport clubs, while there would also be change and ablution rooms, as well as parking and restaurant facilities. At the sod-turning of the promenade extension this year, eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede said an estimated 11000 jobs would be created during construction phase per year, as well as generating a rates revenue of more than R200m. CBD property values were expected to climb 5% on completion.