Perched atop the Gamka mountain, just outside Oudtshoorn, the reserve is a piece of heaven that leaves visitors spellbound. Lying between the Swartberg and Outeniqua mountains, the reserve gets its name from the Khoi word, Xami, meaning lion. The reserve was established in 1974 in order to protect a local population of endangered Cape mountain zebra and their natural habitat. It became a Unesco World Heritage site in 2015. The area is rich in Khoisan culture and the newly established Heritage Trail is a celebration of the history and heritage of the reserve. The reserve’s aim is to revive life as depicted through folklore and rock art. Each of the sites has spiritual significance and record the lifestyles of the Khoi and San people. Traditionally, the Khoi were largely pastoralists while the San lived mostly off hunter-gathering although they did share common ancestry and cultural practices. Both the Khoi and the San people are estimated to have been living in parts of southern Africa for at least 2000 years. The Gamka Reserve boasts three globally recognised biodiversity hotspots - fynbos, succulent Karoo and Albany thicket biomes - which come together to create this unique environment. But it’s not only the plant life that is unique here, the area also teems with nocturnal mammals such as leopards, caracal, jackals, aardvark and porcupines. Some of the commonly seen antelope include kudu, eland and duiker. Western Cape Tourism MEC, Anton Bredell, who was at the launch of the new Gamka Reserve, says long gone are the days when sensitive biodiverse areas were closed off to the public in order to protect them. Bredell said the facilities at the newly built eco-lodge are completely off the grid. The reserve has introduced solar panels and even the flushing mechanisms of the toilets are green and environmentally friendly. “Our country is running out of resources. We need to build on best practices, understanding the environment will help us plan better for the future,” said Bredell. “For future generations to enjoy what we have, we have to do this and we are very excited that people appreciate and visit the facilities and more importantly so that we can create an economy for the neighbouring communities. CapeNature chief executive Dr Razeena Omar calls the reserve one of the province’s “posh glamping units” with the aim to integrate the cultural heritage of the area. “At Gamkaberg, you have various sites of rock art painting and a footprint of human presence that stems over millions of years. “It is accessible to the public in celebration of Heritage Month. Omar said the idea behind heritage sites, like Gamkaberg, was not to create a “heavy-handed” imprint on an environment that is rich in biodiversity. Weekend Argus