Cape Town- Dee Koala’s energy shot her to rap stardom, but this moment comes on the back of a lengthy journey which included her having to adapt to different genres. Born and raised in Khayelitsha as Odwa Situma, 20-year-old Dee Koala has gone viral on social media and her hit-song Whuzet? hogs a prime time spot on Trace TV. “Huzet?” or “Whuzet?” translates to “What’s up?” So where did it all begin? “Well, it started as writing poetry but I’m a very energetic person who likes attention, so I figured rapping could be more my thing. “Two years ago I started rapping for my friends who were already into hip-hop and they’d say that I should take this seriously.” She hopped on a couple of features before releasing her self-titled single Koala. Dee Koala is heavily influenced by the “iSpaza”, a Cape Town genre where rappers spit their bars in the Xhosa language. “Pull up, pull up like whuzet?” - a phrase from the hit song - is already an ear-worm in the Cape Town rap scene. Her rap name is derived from her nickname and the koala bear, which is near-extinction. “I’ll be the only koala left “Another reason is how they cling to trees and their goal being top of the tree. That’s just how I am towards the music industry.” Women in hip-hop are often pitted against one another, but Dee Koala believes she stands out. “I don’t think the way I rap could be actually compared to anyone. I had an EP released last year in May (and it was all) in English, then I decided to just be a bit creative and infuse my language with English.” Dee Koala, who covers up to four gigs a weekend, prefers rapping in a Xhosa sub-dialect, which she refers to as “kasi Xhosa”. Recently she performed with rap star Ricky Rick in Johannesburg. She has performed at the popular hangout spots Rands and eParkini in Khayelitsha. On her marketing strategy, she said: “To be honest, I never really had a strategy. I’m good at marketing myself through relatable music and just being myself. And letting my talent be convincing enough for people to be interested in.” On her short- and long-term goals, she said: “The goal right now is to be recognised as a rapper in the public eye by the end of this year. Then I can showcase my talent and make Khayelitsha proud.” She would like to collaborate with rap megastars MalumKoolKat, Riky, Nasty C, among others. Weekend Argus