The Signature Lux Hotel, in the Waterfront precinct, officially opened its doors last night and offers clients some of the best rates and service around. TManaging director of Richland (Hotel Development) Properties Paul Kelley said the hospitality industry had been stagnant and their aim was to shake up the market. “Most companies have not re- invented themselves. They have taken what they have and tweaked it according to clients’ comments,” he said. Richland Properties buys disused office blocks near the city centre and turns these into affordable accommodation close to the business hubs. Kelley said budget hotels were always on the periphery and some had even outpriced themselves. “Budget hotels need to be in the main business hubs to make it more accessible to SMMEs. We are selling rooms and a sleep experience, not parking, wifi, etc. “We pride ourselves on convenience, flexibility and connectivity.” The Signature Lux offers a digital experience that visitors will not easily find at other budget hotels. “We have uncapped and unshaped wifi. We use CAT 6 fibre which will allow you to download a two-hour movie in just one minute,” he said. Guests also have the option of downloading the Lux app and use it to check in, order food, order laundry service and check out without speaking to any front-desk staff. The hotel is housed in a 1912 building in Albert Street which historically served as a brothel. It is also a heritage building, Kelley said. While the average price of a night’s stay at the Waterfront is about R2000 the Signature Lux is priced at R995 a room per night. “We want to disrupt the industry. That’s the only way - you have to be disruptive,” said Kelley. The hotel has 87 rooms and employs 46 permanent staff. The group’s second hotel, which will have 157 rooms, is under construction on the Foreshore and set to open its doors within two years near the Cape Town International Convention Centre. What also sets this hotel apart is that it partnered with the Waterfront Theatre School and the “theatrical dinner” experience that it offers gives students the opportunity to hone their skills and perform to live audiences. Weekend Argus