CAPE TOWN - A must see event on every theatre-goer’s calendar is the much anticipated New Voices programme hosted annually by the Artscape is set to kick off next month and is a pastiche of drama, surrealism and colour. Scriptwriters and storytellers were invited to submit their texts or concepts or synopses, or even an invitation to a showcase a teaser of their work as early as February. In an overwhelming response from the public four newly written South African content productions where chosen and have been written in English, Xhosa and Afrikaans as well as a mixture of the three languages. “The New Voices Programme seeks to give an opportunity to young writers with work that aims to reclaim and restore marginalised aesthetics, content and language in arts and performances with stories that deal with issues of a social, cultural, heritage, identity, gender or language nature, reflecting our diverse society," said Artscape chief executive Marlene le Roux. She adds: “It furthermore aims to reclaim and restore dignity and confidence to individuals and communities that have been disregarded and under-represented in the past, and lastly the work must add something new and fresh to the theatrical landscape.” Nicola Moerman’s, The Third Force, directed by Rafiek Mammon will open the season. The Third Force takes a look in between the cracks of the words we speak, and at what reality means to different people. What happens within a person’s mind whilst experiencing the many pressures and burdens of everyday life? Next up is No Further Questions, written by Zinobulali Goduka and directed by Fatima Dike. A student is shot dead during a protest in No Further Questions. The air turns sour when it is discovered that it is the president of the SRC and leader of ‘Fees Must Fall’, Khanyisa Ngxekani is shot by her policeman boyfriend. Concealed truths come out as the court hearing proceeds. Korreltjie Kop Klong is my Dood, written by Herschelle Benjamin and directed by Sandra Temmingh hits the Arena stage. Korreltjie Kop Klong is my Dood is a story about matriarchal love, struggles, and strife. Somewhere in Mitchells Plain a single mom awaits the return of her son from yet another, a better rehabilitation centre. After all the sleepless nights, countless hospital visits and neighbours’ jeering, she finds herself alone, yet again, in a constant battle between a mother’s love and a son’s debilitating affliction. This personal story offers a fresh take on the theme of the drug scourge that is often the devastation of families on the Cape Flats. And closing the season will be The Widow, an adaptation of Dr Nomfundo Mali’s support group reports, directed by Siphokazi Jonas. The Widow is a series of monologues representing a platform to investigate how widows cope after the loss of their husbands and loved ones. The monologues aim to create dialogue towards healing and recognising the pain that comes with loss. Four unique and different productions hit the Artscape Arena Theatre from October 2 to 27. Tickets are R60 each at Computicket. Weekend Argus