Cape Town - Boasting the title of the largest province in South Africa, the Northern Cape is a vast landscape of dried grass and flat open plains. But it could just as well be the "happy" province, with its inhabitants ready to welcome visitors with open arms through warmness and generosity. Driving through the province can feel endless with nothing of consequence to see for miles on end but the open and arid bushveld. The capital city, Kimberley, seems more like a sleepy town than a bustling metro with a hive of activity. Some of the main attractions include the Big Hole, the McGregor Museum, and private game farms that sit perched between 15 and 40 kilometres outside of the city. Another worthwhile stop is the Khoisan rock art centre about 20 minutes drive out of the city where visitors have the chance to artworks that are more than 2000 years old. Some of the sites are deep into the veld and require some extended walking. The Big Hole is a wonderful experience and leaves its visitors awestruck and inspired after a quick 30-minute tour of the former mine that includes a chance to snap a selfie or two on the viewing deck, a simulated 800m mine shaft drop and mock mine explosion. The mine became the crown jewel in the mining empire of colonial figure Cecil John Rhodes, who formed and headquartered the De Beers mining company in Kimberley in a boardroom that still exists in the town today. Such was the wealth of the mining industry that Kimberley was the first town in South Africa to have electric street lamps in 1882, which predates London’s first streetlamp to use electricity. Visitors also have the chance to view some of the diamonds that have come from previous mining exploits, as well as a slew of replicas that represent some of South Africa’s and other countries most precious gems. Much of the old mining towns buildings and infrastructure are still in place and once you’ve completed your tour it is well worth taking the time to walk through the town where you can get a sense of how the British and Boers of the time lived. You can also hitch a ride on a fully-operational tram that was used as the main mode of public transportation. With township tourism on the rise around the country, the Galeshewe township in Kimberley is home to the Mayibuye Uprising Memorial, which took place in the township in 1952 as part of the ANC’s defiance campaign. Galeshewe is also the home to the law offices of PAC founder Robert Sobukwe, who was banished to Kimberley in 1969 where his movement was restricted under banning orders. Located near the small town of Hopetown is the Doornbult Concentration Camp Memorials, which is managed by the 78-year-old Rina Wiid who restored the concentration camp and built an open-air museum. The concentration camp was used during the Second Anglo Boer War from 1899-1902 and was the only camp to include both black and white prisoners. Wiid is a joy to encounter and while she is passionate about her Afrikaner roots and in particular the plight of the Boer women that suffered at the camp. She is quick to remind visitors, “here we speak Afrikaans and Xhosa.” For the more adventurous, a quick trip to take a picture at the welcome sign to the Afrikaner enclave of Orania could be on the cards. Orania was established in 1963 with the intention of becoming a stronghold for Afrikaners and the Afrikaans language. Anyone who identifies themselves as such is welcome to live there but you’ll need to exchange your Rands for their own currency, the Ora. The western half of the province boasts a sprawling coastline and includes many Namaqualand wineries. While it may not be marketed as the premier tourist destination in the country it’s well worth a visit by local and international visitors alike. Weekend Argus