Born in a hospital in District Six in the mid-'70s, Heinrich Volmink plans to return to the local government fold with a goal to govern the city better and to bring about social justice. Asked about his ideas, Volmink said he could only reveal limited information as he still had to be interviewed by a 20-member selection panel. The list of DA candidates vying for the position of mayor comprise Volmink, councillor Marlene Abrahams, provincial legislature Speaker Sharna Fernandez, deputy mayor Ian Nielson, Community Safety MEC Dan Plato and Mayco member for transport and urban development, Brett Herron. Weekend Argus spoke to some of them to hear what their plans were. Volmink, the incumbent DA Gauteng regional chair, said he returns with ideas centred around infrastructure and service delivery. “I have ideas on how to enhance governance in the City.” Volmink, who is a medical doctor, said District Six was a complex issue that needed to be sorted out as soon as possible. “The issue goes over generations and the impasse involves issues that go across all spheres of government. But the underlying issues of social inclusion and cohesion and social justice covers what we need to be looking at,” he said. Asked if he thought DA leaders would consider an outsider, Volmink said he identified as Capetonian, even though he works in Joburg. He completed his matric in the city and went on to become a member of Parliament. “I know and understand the community, the latest developments in terms of nuances of urban issues, is stuff I will quickly learn because I understand the city’s people,” he said. Plato was appointed as mayor in 2009. In a recent interview with Weekend Argus, he said being appointed as MEC was a promotion. He has changed his tune and says he wants to serve the residents of Cape Town. He said it would be an honour for him to serve the City. Plato would not commit on what his plans were for the City, saying it was early days. Abrahams declined to speak or confirm her candidacy. In a letter to this publication, Herron wrote: “In making my decision to stand as a candidate for mayor of Cape Town, I asked myself one question: do I truly have the ability and qualities required to lead this great city and to stay the course no matter what? I thought long and hard and concluded that I have what it takes." The panel includes DA caucus leader JP Smith and DA metro chairperson Grant Twigg. Weekend Argus