In the previous general elections the EFF won 25 seats in Parliament, but out of this number, about 11 EFF MPs have resigned or relinquished their seats as a result of contravening the party's constitution. EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu, however, denied that the party was battling to keep its members in Parliament. He said the party has since its inception and presence in Parliament fired three people. “The majority we have redeployed to the legislature and to local municipalities. Wherever we think we need deeper attention in the province or whatever level, we will then redeploy those people there. “This is to make sure that we align our work properly,” said Shivambu. In 2015, the EFF showed the door to its former MP Khanyisile Litchfield-Tshabalala, who left the party to join the United Democratic Movement. Litchfield-Tshabalala was fired alongside Mpho Ramakatsa and Andile Mngxitama. Ramakatsa was the party's national co-ordinator while Mngxitama was a member of the interim central command team and the “war council” until the party's National People's Assembly in Mangaung in December. The trio were booted out for speaking to the media while on suspension, implying financial impropriety in the party, leaking information to the media, and not attending the State of the Nation Address. Other members who have resigned from the party include Magdalene Moonsamy, Vuyokazi Ketabahle, Bernard Joseph, Lucky Twala, Pumza Ntobongwana, Modikela Matlhoko, Emmanuel Mtileni and Lapologang Tlhaole. Shivambu said yesterday that members who were expelled were “only a few”, and they were removed for not performing. “There are members who we removed because we thought that they were not doing organisational work. These people were not adding value in terms of the EFF work.” Shivambu claimed that the EFF was pushing boundaries with its members and that the party would emerge victorious in the 2019 elections. “We are the only organisation that has been tabling substantial policy positions in Parliament. The impact of the EFF is huge - Parliament is now focusing on the land question and it is ultimately going to amend the Constitution because of the initiation of the EFF. Since 1994, the EFF has been the most impactful political organisation outside of the ruling party.” However, political analyst Ralph Mathekga said the numbers signalled a leadership and conflict resolution problem within the EFF. Political Bureau