Cape Town - Organisers of this year's Sanlam Cape Town Marathon are hoping to help more than 50 charities raise in excess of R2,5 million through the marathon's Run4Change Legacy Programme. As thousands of runners, elite athletes and supporters get ready to descend upon the Mother City for the September 23, 2018 race, race organisers say they're hoping that this year's initiative surpasses the R1,3m they helped raise in 2017. The programme, which was designed to spur positive and meaningful societal change both for local communities and for the country as a whole, focuses on five key areas - including charity. The other four areas are personal health, environmental sustainability, community peace and athlete development. “No longer is running just for fun, keeping fit or competition,” said Sanlam Cape Town Marathon race ambassador Elana van Zyl-Meyer. “A growing number of runners the world over have realised that through their participation they can rally attention and funds to causes they are truly passionate about.” She added that a range of fundraising activities are available, from supporting one or more of the marathon’s official charities active in sports development, or linking in with one of the 50 charities listed on the marathon’s GivenGain fundraising profile. The marathons official charities - the Western Province Athletics’ Kids Athletics Development Programme and SA Endurance Academy - have already received over R255 000 in donations through the marathon’s GivenGain profile. Janneke Cillie has raised over R6 000 for the Animal Anti-Cruelty League in Cape Town through GivenGain. “I love animals and wanted to help in some way, or even just raise awareness. The online process is so convenient – the steps are easy to follow and it’s so much quicker and safer than going door-to-door asking for money. Also, with an online platform, your donors can read up on what you’re doing and how you’re going about it,” Cillie said. Runners also have the option of registering their own charity campaign on https://www.givengain.com/e/ctmarathon2018/. For further details, visit the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon website.