By next week, the US and China appear likely to be on the brink of slapping tariffs on their entire goods trade, which exceeds $635billion (R9.876 trillion) annually. Chinese officials in Beijing said they would meet the 10% tariffs that Trump announced Monday on nearly $200bn in imports with similar measures on $60bn in American products. The showdown comes as Chinese officials were preparing to travel to Washington for new talks aimed at resolving the months-old trade dispute. Negotiations earlier this year failed to make much progress and it remains unclear whether Chinese officials will resume bargaining in the wake of the president’s latest escalation. As hopes dim for an early end to the conflict, the likelihood grows that the two countries are moving toward some sort of commercial divorce. “We’re probably talking about a world with two centres: a China-centred economic domain and another centred on the United States,” said Aaron Friedberg, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University. “It’s heading toward a bifurcated global economy.” Such a fundamental reshaping of the US-China commercial relationship after nearly four decades of growing interdependence would ripple through the global economy, shaking financial markets, reordering business supply chains and perhaps even raising the danger of military conflict, analysts have said. The two countries’ annual goods trade is roughly equal to the output of Argentina, which is widely considered to have the world’s 21st-largest economy. For now, a genuine breakdown in the US-China relationship, affecting roughly 40% of the global economy, remains a long-term prospect. The immediate prospect is for the trade dispute to percolate for the remainder of this year, gradually ratcheting up the economic pain in both countries. Trump says the tariffs are needed to compel China to abandon a host of unfair trade practices, including making American companies surrender their trade secrets in return for access to the Chinese market and subsidising state firms in advanced-technology industries. “The purpose of the tariffs is to modify China’s behaviour,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said. “The real purpose is not to end up with tariffs. The real purpose is to end up with a level playing field so that American firms can compete properly.” The newest tariffs will hit consumer goods such as appliances and vehicle parts, but Ross insisted the impact would be so slight that “nobody’s going to actually notice it at the end of the day”. That’s unlikely to be true in every case. The 25% tariffs that Trump imposed on imported washing machines in January quickly translated into price shock for shoppers. Over the past year, retail prices rose 13.6%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the short term, the president’s newest tariffs will be weaker than his earlier trade actions, as a strong dollar allows Americans to overlook any modest price increase on Chinese goods. The president announced on Monday that he would hit up to $200bn in Chinese goods - itemised on a 194-page list - with a 10% tariff starting on Monday. That’s a smaller tax than the 25% levy he applied to $50bn of imports from China in July. Changes in the value of the US dollar and China’s currency over the course of this year are certain to sap some of the new tariffs’ power. Since early February, the dollar has gained more than 6% against the Chinese yuan. “This shows you how complex it is to narrow the trade deficit,” said Torsten Slok, chief international economist for Deutsche Bank Securities. “Tariffs are a small part of the picture. There are many other moving parts and the rising dollar is offsetting some of the effects.” Similarly, the drop in China’s currency will exaggerate the effect of China’s retaliatory tariffs, making goods imported from the US even more expensive for Chinese customers. “American exporters now face a double whammy in terms of their competitiveness in the Chinese markets due to China’s retaliatory tariffs and the strengthening of the dollar,” said economist Professor Eswar Prasad of Cornell University, formerly head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division. Under Trump’s plan, the tariff pain on the $200bn batch of Chinese goods will grow on January 1, rising to 25% from the original 10%. If there remains little sign of diplomatic progress by that point, more companies may switch their orders from Chinese suppliers to factories in countries such as Vietnam or India, executives say. “We have not yet seen any significant shift in the customer supply chains. However, if the situation continues for any amount of time, we do expect customers to diversify their supply chains and perhaps some of the trade patterns might change,” Rajesh Subramaniam, executive vice president of FedEx, told investors last week. As the president pursues his uncompromising approach to China, business leaders are growing increasingly frustrated. China’s Foreign Ministry said it would respond to Trump’s latest round of tariffs with duties on more than 5200 types of US imports, including industrial parts and chemicals. Trump has promised to respond to Chinese retaliation. The Washington Post