However, trust project manager Craig Pedersen said, there had been a decrease in contact crimes in Milnerton Central. “Naturally, all statistics are by nature subjective and require some careful interpretation. Of concern is the under-reporting of crimes. “It’s not uncommon to encounter victims of attempted muggings and attempted housebreaking who don’t wish to open a case,” he said. Pedersen said where homeowners had proceeded with cases, they had seen some great results at court, with good sentences being handed down. “It’s all down to perception and follow-through and this is clearly something we need to focus on in terms of highlighting the wins and positives within our community.” Pederson said the drop in the number of rapes from 65 to 58 in the precinct was most likely an indicator of under-reporting than an actual decline. “While there are some great groups in the area working with victims and prevention, I would err on the side of caution and say that this is a concern, as victims are just not coming forward.” Reagan Croeser, chairperson of the Summer Greens Neighbourhood Watch, said they had experienced an increase in crime over the past two months. “Robberies at knife and gunpoint have increased and we had two hijackings in the area last month. “The problem we are facing is that there isn’t enough police visibility. And, yes, we know that SAPS is understaffed. SAPS’s main focus in the Milnerton precinct is in Dunoon and I feel that they are neglecting our area. “This is the reason why our crime stats have increased drastically,” said Croeser. Community policing forum (CPF) chairperson Mark Lindsell said they were extremely concerned about the released crime statistics. “We know that SAPS resources, in general, are extremely stretched nationally and as we can see, particularly in the Western Cape. “Milnerton SAPS’s focus is on attending to the more serious crimes, which means that minor incidents enjoy less attention and often fall by the wayside, which then creates an illusion that our police force is not interested in helping the community. This is very far from the truth,” said Lindsell. “For us, the challenge is insurmountable - we have to convince residents that uniting against crime via neighbourhood watches and/or joining forces with private security companies is the only way to stay ahead of criminal elements.” Weekend Argus