Cape Town - Author Maya Fowler-Sutherland grew up in Cape Town and Graaff-Reinet and has worked across all spheres of media including as a journalist, translator, English teacher, and creative writing tutor. Now based in Vancouver, Canada she attended the recent Open Book Festival and spoke to Weekend Argus about her experience. What was your experience at the Open Book Festival like? It was my first time as a panelist, and it was marvelous. I was really fortunate to be interviewed by Judge Dennis Davis, and my fellow panelists were the marvelous Mphuthumi Ntabeni (The Broken River Tent) and Karin Brynard (Homeland). The events were all really well curated; the organisers took care to combine authors with common threads in their work, and the facilitators were all impeccably prepared. It was wonderful to hear from a wide range of voices, and it was a very affirming experience for me as a South African writer. What is Patagonia about and how did you conceptualise it? The story follows two sets of characters on their flight and pursuit through the landscape of Patagonia, Argentina. There is a double-time setting. Basjan and Salome leave South Africa for Argentina in 1902, while Tertius and Alta flee and give chase, respectively, in 2017. Both male characters have done something horrifying, which causes them to run off; both are chased by women demanding justice. The concept has been with me for many years and is based on the historical fact of 600 Afrikaner families emigrating to Patagonia after the Anglo-Boer war. To this day Afrikaans exists in isolated spots in this Spanish-speaking region. Take me through your writing process? It's different for each novel, but sometimes the seed is a certain kind of character, sometimes an event, or sometimes a theme. In this case, it was the theme of post-war emigration, but I was also really interested in the language, how it was retained, and the Spanish influence on it. (I translated the book into English myself, and that – the Patagonian Afrikaans vernacular – was a tricky but satisfying thing to render in English.) The storyline usually follows from what I believe the characters would do in the environment I've placed them in, and flow comes with daily writing (to build and maintain momentum), and plenty of editing. What are common traps for aspiring writers? The classic mistake is "telling" instead of "showing". "The man was furious" is telling; "He clenched his fists and went red in the face" is showing. Other traps are peppering your work with adverbs or adjectives. Carefully considered verbs, on the other hand, make for effective writing. How do you become a better writer? Tell your ego to get lost, listen to your writing coach or editor, and read Stephen King's On Writing and John Gardner's The Art of Fiction. What's next for you and what are your hopes for Patagonia? I've just released a new book called Tebatso gaan see toe (Protea Boekhuis). My hope is that my agent will sell the rights to an English-language publisher so that I can translate it. Similarly, my hope for Patagonia is for an overseas publisher to buy rights so that the book can set off for foreign shores, just like its characters. Weekend Argus