Cape Town - Oleanna is the most relevant production on a Cape Town theatre stage today riding the #MeToo zeitgeist and cements the Fugard Theatre’s status as the bastion of topical theatre culture. In Oleanna, a female college student engages with her male professor in a heated discussion about his lesson content and teaching style. Their interactions and relationship quickly take a turn for the worst after John (Alan Committe) has a complaint of sexual harassment laid against him by his student Carol (Nicole Fortuin), which threatens his job promotion prospects. Written by American David Mamet and first staged in 1992, at its core, Oleanna takes a look at the power dynamics that govern the student-teacher relationship and how that power can be taken and manipulated under the guise of sexual harassment allegations depending from whose perspective you watch the play. It examines the explosive and relevant contemporary issues of the assumption of power, intellectual freedom and sexual politics against the background of academic, institutional and structural inequality. Committe is excellent as John and audiences should be forgiven for forgetting that the comedian was a trained teacher in his past life. It’s his educator training that really shines through in his portrayal of John as he delivers thought-provoking soliloquies on his deep love of teaching and his critique of the failings of the higher education system. Fortuin also delivers a strong performance but can come off as annoying in her portrayal of Carol, which does alienate the audience against her character. Her characters lack of intelligence and petulance towards John's curriculum only add to the audience's irritation. Considering the play was written in the 1990's its relevance today is astounding given that almost 30 years later the same issues around sexual harassment dominate the discourse but more than that it sparks a conversation around what constitutes sexual harassment given modern defining parameters. Ultimately it’s up to the viewer to decide who they believe is right but an astounding bit of violence towards the end of the production might just sway an audience. Even then it’s a story of injustice and ultimately whoever you pick is the wrong choice. Worth a mention is Chris Pienaar’s set design with all the intricate details that make up John’s office really tying the academic theme of the set together. Oleanna is on at the Fugard Studio Theatre until October 20. Weekend Argus