The collars form part of research designed to help manage the baboon populations. The project forms part of an undertaking by a research team from Swansea University led by professor Andrew King. The project runs from August to October, and the research helps scientists better understand how baboons are able to cope and thrive in a human landscape. The team have specifically focused on the baboon troop based at Da Gama Park. “The Da Gama troop is particularly interesting, not least because they are the only baboons, that we know of, that sleep on a building,” said King. The team are researching what attributes in baboons make them good raiders. One of the main reasons baboons come into contact with humans is to raid the suburbs for food. The collars use GPS tracking and motion sensor technology to gather data for the research team. “The collars allow us to measure where the baboons are and what they are doing every second of the daytime. We use the collar data in combination with direct observation and collection of faecal and urine samples to get a complete picture of what life as a baboon is like,” said King. The battery and motion sensor sits at the bottom of the collar, the GPS at the top, and a drop-off mechanism at the side. “We have taken great care to ensure that the collars are comfortable and sit correctly on the baboons,” said King. According to the research team, the baboons investigate the collars in the first hours after they are fitted and then ignore them. Baboon Matters spokesperson Jenni Trethowan said the group was supportive of the research but questioned the necessity of it. “It’s great that Swansea are looking to this and doing the research, but a lot of this has been done before and a lot of data already exists on this,” she said. Trethowan added: “Perhaps a better research topic would be to ask how baboons would respond if there was no reward for them from human interaction.” UCT professor and director at the Institute for Communities and Wildlife of Africa Justin O’Riain said the Cape Peninsula baboons are managed “better than any wildlife that comes into urban contact anywhere else in the world”. “Of course these collars are inconvenient, but look at what we’ll learn from the data. We can take this model across South Africa,” said O’Riain. King said the collars would automatically drop off the baboons in October, and visualisations of the data would be provided to the public if requested. “Our aim is to learn about the baboons and provide clear recommendations to those tasked with managing them in hope of improving the lives of both baboons and people,” said King. Weekend Argus