Cape Town - Kai Brummer will star in the first play to be put on at the newly renovated Theatre On The Bay when it reopens later this month. The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night-Time follows Christopher Boone who has an exceptional mind and excels at mathematics but is ill-equipped to deal with everyday tasks. Boone has never ventured further than the end of his road and hates being touched by other humans and has a complete lack of trust in strangers. Brummer steps into the role of Boone having previously appeared at the Cape Town Fringe Festival, the National Arts Festival and the Artscape stage. “I was asked to come in and read for the role and was lucky enough to land it. Christopher is a 15-year-old who sits on the autism spectrum. But, the author of the novel never wanted him to be defined as this,” said Brummer. He added: “I find everything about playing this role challenging but I imagine that is true for any actor attempting to play a role as complex as this one. The most difficult aspect is, as always, finding Christopher’s truth.” Brummer graduated from UCT drama school in 2016 and received various prizes and scholarships during his university career, which included the Ellie Walendorf Prize for best male actor. The play was adapted by Simon Stephens from British writer Mark Haddon’s mystery novel of the same name. Brummer said the play moves at “the lightning speed of Christopher’s thoughts”. The resulting scenes are fraught with tension but the play is full of humour, which offers the audience a reprieve. It is this dynamic that offers the audience a compelling glimpse into how Boone’s mind works. “As an actor, these scenes are at their best when we hold this tension for an audience. I honestly don’t know a person who wouldn’t enjoy this play, it’s a riot,” said Brummer. The lead actor is joined by a cast that includes Ashley Dowds, Jenny Stead, Lesoko Seabe, Kate Normington, Liz Szymczak, Dylan Edy, Nicholas Ellenbogen, Genna Galloway and Clayton Evertson. The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night-Time opens at Theatre On The Bay on September 25 and runs until November 3. Weekend Argus