Mr Maggott, as he was better known, was an avid lover of the game and was a member of the then Western Province Football Board (WPFB), which was the overseeing body for the various coloured unions in the province. He purchased the trophy, and the winners of the various unions played for the prestigious Maggott Trophy. However, it is said that in the 1970s the trophy went missing. With tomorrow being Heritage Day, the family and those in the soccer fraternity - especially those who played in those days - are keen to find it as it plays a major role in the sporting heritage in the province. Thelma Wedel, 93, the daughter of Mr Maggott, said she would love to see the trophy again as she accompanied her father to the jewellers in Adderley Street when he bought it. “The jeweller was at the top Adderley Street. He wasn’t sure at the time what he wanted to do with the trophy.” However, he soon decided that it would be played as a challenge for league winners in the various unions under the WPFB. The trophy, which she said was very unique in its design, became a big part of the soccer season. She said her father wanted to give coloured soccer players something more to play for other than just their own league matches. The ultimate winner of the Maggott Trophy would be considered as the best team for that season in the WPFB. Wedel said she hopes the trophy can be found.“My eldest brother tried to find the trophy, but couldn’t.” Sadly, she said, he died 11 years ago. “Someone must know where it is.” Moey Carolus, who was and still is a member of the Battswood Football Club, said he played in two finals for the trophy. “It was the premier competition in the WCFB. It was a prestigious competition. It is a big part of the soccer heritage. Winning that trophy was a big deal.” He said the first winners of the Maggott Trophy were Aerials Football Club in either 1957 or 1958. The Maggott Trophy, he explained is based on the European Cup. He said that after 1977, the trophy went missing. “The trophy needs to be found because it needs to be in a museum.” Meanwhile, Joe Schaffers, who played for Aerials Football Club and works for the District Six Museum, agreed that winning the Maggot Trophy was a big deal. He said he has been asking for years for people to come forward with information, but to date he still has no idea where it could be. If you have any information on the whereabouts of the Maggott Trophy, contact Tanya Petersen or Joe Schaffers on joe@districtsix.co.za Weekend Argus