Pretoria - The saying “old but not cold” again proved true when a 75-year-old pensioner obtained a divorce from his 79-year-old wife, saying he could no longer cope with her one-night stands with other men. The pensioner said his two-timing wife was no longer welcome in his house or bed. The woman agreed that they were not meant to spend the rest of their lives together so she moved out of the retirement village, north of Pretoria, where they lived. She is now staying in another retirement village in the area. The man stated in papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that the last straw was when his wife, during a holiday in Korea, had “extramarital intercourse with a third party from one of the islands located in the Philippines”. The third party confirmed the affair to him telephonically, he said. In court papers, the woman, born in 1939, agreed that they should get divorced. “We have different ideals on what our lives should be like in the future. We also do not share common interests,” she said. She also accused him of having extra-marital affairs, but the man vehemently denied this. The couple, who cannot be identified in terms of the Divorce Act, were married in April last year during a ceremony in White River. This, while the estate of the woman’s previous husband, was still being concluded. The man made it clear in papers before court that no children were born from their one-year union. His now former wife moved out of the house earlier this year after a physical altercation, he said, when she punched him in the chest and stomach. “The plaintiff (the man) is now fearful of the defendant (the woman), the court was told. The man said he found his wife’s extra-marital affairs during the marriage “intolerable”. She left him several times during the marriage but every time begged to come back. “She took advantage of my good nature and character and continued with her self-centered actions.” He accused her of going on a spending spree with his credit card while he was in ICU earlier this year. Another accusation was that she used to drug him at night, forcing him to drink a tranquilliser. He said she used this medication herself, on top of an abundance of alcohol. “She then became violent or collapsed. I have lost my love, trust, and respect for her.” The man said he bought her a brand new silver Mercedes-Benz last year, but she promised to pay him back once her previous husband’s estate was wound up. Meanwhile, they agreed to divide their furniture and appliances, except for the washing machine and tumble drier, on which they have not yet reached an agreement. The issue regarding her wedding ring “will be discussed between the parties”, it was said in their written settlement agreement. Pretoria News