Sikhumbuzo Mjwara, the owner of uMhlanga’s upmarket Barrio Restaurant was kidnapped outside the court on August 30, after attending a civil case over a financial dispute. Mjwara, 41, a former eThekwini Municipality employee, is the director of a chain of businesses including several mining, investment and lifestyle companies. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed a case of kidnapping was being investigated by the provincial organised crime unit. Zwane said Mjwara’s wife had alleged that her husband was kidnapped by unknown people. “The complainant alleged that on August 30 around 10.30am in the Verulam area, her husband was kidnapped. A case of kidnapping was opened at Verulam police station for investigation. “No arrests have been made at this stage,” said Zwane. Mjwara’s family declined to comment on his kidnapping and said they were concerned that making a statement could jeopardise his safety. A friend of Mjwara’s who asked not to be named said the situation was “highly sensitive” and since there was no news on Mjwara’s whereabouts after three weeks of his disappearance, the situation had been concerning for relatives and friends. “All we are praying for is his safe return,” said the friend. Mjwara’s disappearance comes after the return of Cape Town businessman Liyaqat Parker, who was released to his family this week more than two months after being kidnapped. It has been reported that money was paid, but Parker’s family has denied this. Parker went missing in July after he was accosted while driving into the basement parking of his business premises in Parow. Police said an unknown double-cab LDV followed him and suspects forced a security guard at gunpoint at the gate into the toilet, where they took his cellphone and locked him up. Parker is the founder of the Foodprop Group and is a board member of the Brimstone investment group. Cape Town mayor-designate Dan Plato this week raised concerns about the police’s ability to prevent the kidnappings of prominent business people in South Africa. He said he would ask police for feedback on the investigation into Parker’s kidnapping this week. Martin Ewi, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies said the kidnapping of wealthy businessmen had become a huge problem for South Africa. He said law enforcement needed to handle the issue with more attention than it was currently receiving. Zwane said police were appealing to anyone who might have information about suspects involved in the kidnapping or about Mjwara’s whereabouts to contact their local police station or call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. SUNDAY TRIBUNE