Somerset West - Acting President David Mabuza and the DA have expressed their condolences to the families of the eight people killed in an explosion at a Denel munitions factory between Somerset West and Strand on Monday afternoon. The Presidency said Mabuza had learned with sadness of the passing of eight people as a result of the explosion. “We have learned with sadness of the unfortunate explosion this afternoon that has reportedly claimed eight lives while injuring several others. "We wish to express, on behalf of the country and Government, our deepest condolences to all the families of the deceased people. May their souls rest in peace,” said Mabuza. Mabuza went on to wish all those injured a speedy recovery and urged the authorities to get to the bottom of the cause of the explosion so that the necessary action can be taken. ANC Provincial Secretary Faiez Jacobs said: “The ANC Western Cape sends its support to the families of the confirmed eight people who have died and those injured. We continue to monitor the situation through our councillor on the ground and we hope there will be no more deaths.” The DA also expressed its deepest condolences to the families and called for "a full and thorough investigation into the cause of the blast". "We commend the efforts of the City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue Service and trust that they will continue working tirelessly to ensure that all the people reported missing are recovered. "The DA will continue to monitor the situation as well as the progress in the investigation into this tragic incident." On Monday afternoon, the City of Cape Town's Fire and Rescue Service responded to an incident at the Rheinmetall Denel Munitions factory. On arrival, it was ascertained that an explosion had occurred and the staff were in the process of extinguishing the subsequent fire. It was initially reported that four people had been killed and six others reported missing, but the death toll has since risen to eight. All the missing people have now been accounted for, the City confirmed on Monday evening. The cause of the fire is under investigation. IOL