CAPE TOWN - Heritage month signifies a slew of activities at the Iziko Museums of South Africa with the launch of the annual in_herit Festival. The festival is of Iziko’s most important programmes, signifying the museum’s mission of conserving and keeping heritage alive for a wide audience. The week-long celebration will comprise of a series of walkabouts, guided tours, an exhibition opening, events, and Museum Night V&A. This year marks the centenary of the birth of former president, Nelson Mandela, and in keeping with this, the festival programme is aligned to, and supports the national theme: The Year of Nelson Mandela: Advancing Transformation of South Africa’s Heritage Landscape. Rooksana Omar, chief executive of Iziko, said Mandela was a recognisable worldwide figure and served as the perfect example of what a celebration of heritage should entail. “Recognised across the globe as both a symbol of sacrifice and beacon of hope, Madiba’s life lessons are part of our cultural heritage – constituting a national treasure, which we mustconserve and share for future generations,” she said. Omar added: “Our nation’s heritage is to be treasured. From our Rock Art, fossil remains; artworks; sculptures; objects and artifacts, to our monuments and sites – such as the Cape floral region; Robben Island; the Vredefort Dome and Mapungubwe – the magnificence,splendour, diversity and uniqueness of our artistic, cultural and natural heritage must be honoured.” On Heritage Day: Heritage Day at Iziko is jam-packed with activities. Marine biology, microfossils and insect displays brings “behind-the-scenes-science” to the fore. Guided tours of the Groot Constantia Manor House, Iziko Bo-Kaap Museum, Castle of Good Hope and Iziko South African Museum, provide new perspectives. A drumming session; cartoon workshop, jewelry-making, mock-fossil dig, fossil casting and painting your own masterpiece, all allow visitors to get involved. Music and dance performances by community cultural performers the Marimba Jam Trio Group, Rainbow Academy and Our Future Dance Group, showcases local talent. #BeTheLegacy and join the conversation, talk, listen and connect with Erhardt Thiel – the artist who created the iMadiba conversation station from 12:00 until 15:00. The iMadiba installation is an artistic recreation of Madiba’s Robben Island cell, and the focal point of the multi-disciplinary exhibition: “Tata Madiba: Father of our democracy, Father of our Nation, currently on show at the Iziko South African Museum. Half-price at Iziko Planetarium and Digital Dome: Visit the most advanced digital planetarium on the African continent for an unparalleled multi-sensory 360◦ cinema experience. Fly into space, soar amongst the stars and have the adventure of a lifetime. Meet The Accidental Astronauts, Sy, Annie, Armstrong and their wise-cracking starship. Observe the stars and galaxies with James and Vladimir as they embark on a mission to discover why the night is so long at the poles of the Earth. Embark on an epic Asteroid: Mission Extreme and the possibility of a cataclysmic collision. New exhibition opening: Under Cover of Darkness aims to highlight the experience of colonial subjects through a specific focus on the lives of women among others, Susanna of Bengal’, Krotoa and Zara van der Caab, by intervening in the Slave Lodge, a symbolically laden site. The exhibition seeks to surface questions concerning how such histories continue to impact on the present. Under cover of Darkness opens to the public at the Iziko Slave Lodge on September 26. Candid conversations: Join the Men Affirming Dignity (MAD) Project for a candid conversation about the stereotypical narrative relating to men living on the Cape Flats, and in townships, being as primarily violent and destructive. The conversation puts the spotlight on men who have navigated harsh conditions under apartheid and general life challenges, and emerged as men who retained their humanity and continue to affirm the dignity of women, their families, society and other men. “Women in Film”, is a workshop discussion, and a selection of short films and pilot episodes will be screened. The discussion will investigate the roles, challenges and opportunities for women in film on the African continent. The in_herit Festival runs from September 24-30. Weekend Argus