Cape Town - Outgoing Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille continued her fight against apartheid spatial planning and the redress of the wrongs of the previous government on Heritage Day, on Monday. "Redress and reconciliation have been among hallmarks of the City of Cape Town administration in order to correct the wrongs of the Apartheid government," she said. "It gave me pleasure to join councillors in Area Central to handover title deeds to residents from Athlone, Gugulethu, Uitsig, Nyanga, Manenberg, Hanover Park and Kalksteenfontein. "Many of these beneficiaries have waited more than two decades to have ownership of the houses they have lived in for years. "One of the beneficiaries Mary Fredericks, who is 85 years old, has been waiting for more than 20 years to have ownership of her own house," De Lille said. "Aunty Mary is partially blind and deaf. She never gave up on her dream to have that house registered in her name. "Mrs Fredericks and her daughter will finally rest easy knowing they are the rightful owners of the property they occupy." Another couple, Arthur and Maria Botha, had also been waiting for the title deed to their home for 20 years. Botha suffers from Parkinson's Disease, De Lille said. "The apartheid regime took away people’s rights to dignity and ownership as people of colour were not allowed to own property," she said. De Lille's adminstration had issued more than 500 title deeds in Area Central since November last year, De Lille said, in addition to the 4 330 title deeds handed out to residents across the City during the 2017/18 financial year. "For the 2016/17 financial year, the City dispensed 1 182 title deeds to residents in historical housing projects and 760 title deeds to residents living in Council saleable rental stock. "This is building on the legacy from our first term of office between 2011 and 2016 when more than 11 000 title deeds were issued to residents. "The project of redress remains one of the priorities of this administration and officials are working hard to ensure they trace the beneficiaries of hundreds of title deeds currently in the City’s possession," De Lille said. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus