Cape Town designer Anees Petersen will take the existing Woolworths RE: Denim collection and reimagining it into a design befitting his Young & Lazy fashion label. Woolworths have collaborated with local designers to introduce their latest StyleBySA range at the opening show of SA Fashion Week held in Sandton City. The range will include designers Rich Mnisi, Thebe Magugu, Wanda Lephoto, Sindiso Khumalo, Kabelo Kungwane and Petersen. The collaboration creates a platform for young-and-upcoming South African designers to tell their stories through fashion, which allows them to become more accessible to the consumer market. Petersen added his own style to the denim pieces. “I took the existing RE: denim and deconstructed it or enhanced it to resemble some of my basic shapes and designs and then did lots of retouches.” Inventive cuts and shapes can be expected from Petersen’s contributions to the collection, which is in keeping with the style of Young & Lazy. Petersen, 30, grew up in Woodstock and always had a flair for fashion. He studied at the Cape Town College of Fashion Design. “I already knew about garment construction from primary school and that’s where I developed my street culture because the other kids always had the best clothes and sneakers and that became what ‘cool’ meant to me,” he said. Petersen began his label in 2012 and he draws his inspiration from his experiences in creating his street wear-influenced style. “My work is really personal. It covers my heritage and culture, and it comes through in my designs.” His studio is based in Woodstock and he was formerly part of the Cornerstone store, which he co-founded. He decided to leave in January and  designs his clothes on his own to get complete originality. “The feeling of being independent and doing what I think is right for the label is good. I’m taking full ownership over my style and stay true to what I want do with it,” said Petersen. This will be the second time Petersen will have designs at SA Fashion Week,  having first showcased his clothes at last year’s event. His muse for this year’s SA  Fashion Week is his friend Kalo Canterbury who he first met at a sale for one of his early collections six years  ago. The friends have similar tastes, which helps Petersen design the perfect garments for him. “Kalo has been influencing the brand for so long and has a deeper understanding of fashion than most of the people who are actually in the industry since we are into the same things, everything I make suits him. “The fact that we are homies first yet still get to work together in different creative capacities is very rare,” said Petersen. His next move is bringing his brand to Joburg and then to look into further ventures in Africa. SA Fashion Week runs from April 10 to 15.