Lange, who was raised in Somerset West, has been co-hosting the glitzy ballroom dancing competition on the pay TV station for a few weeks, introducing us to the show’s array of celebrity dancers, while trying to juggle a daily mid-morning show on Heart 104.9  and links for the kykNET magazine programme Bravo! Amid what could only have been a manic schedule, Lange recently ended her work on Heart FM to focus on her TV commitments. In an interview with Weekend Argus, Lange said she would be on a red-eye flight out of Joburg early on Monday mornings after Sunday nights on Dancing with the Stars, and walk into the studio, just in time for her radio work. Her schedule includes hosting the live TV competition that requires choreography even for presenters, as well as two days of voiceovers and dress rehearsals in the build-up to the live show at 5pm on Sunday nights. “Radio is what prepared me the most for this show. On a radio show I have to know when the ads need to go out, when music needs to play, and it was easier for me because I was a radio producer too,” she explains. She came to Dancing with the Stars via an audition with production company Rapid Blue’s Kee-Leen Irvine. “I auditioned with Chris (Jaftha) and it just felt lekker (good). Two weeks later they said I have the job!” Among her roles on the show, Lange has to debrief with dancers to the audience, shortly after the judges comment about the couples’ performances and then after scoring. It’s a tough one: she has to fill time or save it and deal with the shock or joy of the celebrities who aren’t always pleased with the scoring. “I am careful not to side with a contestant. They are all, in their respective fields, number one and are putting in eight hours of rehearsal a day.” Off screen, she says there is much banter and fun during rehearsals. “It’s crazy, so much fun. Chris has been a really good co-host. Once when I was faint during a rehearsal when the air-conditioning wasn’t functioning, he was at our dressing room in seconds, looking for a medic and rehydration.” Meanwhile, she promises, this isn’t the last we’ve heard from her on radio - being a devotee of the medium. Lange, who began her work life in retail, started her broadcast career volunteering in community radio in Somerset West. After an RSG producer heard her and taped an audition for her, she started on Good Hope FM as a newsreader. This altered her career path, as she had been working towards being a property conveyancer. During her time at Heart, she grew a following, slipping seamlessly from English to Afrikaans while interviewing activists like Denis Goldberg and disabled dancer Christelle Dreyer. “Listeners are interested in people’s stories, they are not interested in your story. This is not goodbye to radio, it is in my blood. It is a great platform and I am happy the show grew the way it did.”