Yesterday morning, Zuma appeared in the dock in the Durban High Court, to be told by Judge Themba Sishi that his case would be postponed to June. This after Zuma said he would challenge the decision of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams to reinstate charges against him. “These charges have been reinstated for political reasons. “Opposition parties, because of their serious lack of politics, don’t know how to win debates in Parliament and they are using courts to drive their agenda,” he said. “For more than 10 years they have been saying ‘we want this case reinstated’.” Zuma’s legal team will be making representations to the NPA - this will be their third attempt. The first time was in 2009 and his application was dismissed. Then he tried again with Abrahams, who decided last month to reinstate charges. Defence advocate Mannie Witz said Zuma would have to argue that certain irregularities took place that influenced the decision. This decision could be appealed. “We could be in for the long haul,” he said. Legal expert Paul Hoffman said Zuma and his legal team would try anything to “duck, dive, delay and defect” the case so that he may never be asked to plead to the charges. Following the postponement yesterday, Hoffman said that given the track record of Zuma’s legal team, he foresaw they would lodge a review proceeding in respect of the decision not to uphold the representations made by Zuma. “They will appeal that if they lose. “Then they will appeal that appeal at the Constitutional Court. They will exhaust every avenue to appeal and that will take about two to three years,” Hoffman said. He said Zuma’s legal team would possibly apply to get a permanent stay of prosecution and “rehash” everything, which could push the matter for another three years. “Then there will be a fight over who will pay Zuma’s legal fees. All this will delay the day Zuma is asked to plead to the charges,” he said. In a different scenario, should Zuma be asked to plead sooner, Hoffman said his legal team was likely to try to foster a deal that might result in some of the charges being dropped. “If not a plea bargain, then they (legal team) will continue to throw sand in the gearbox of the judiciary system.” Zuma’s co-accused is the French company Thales, which was represented in court by Madame Christine Guerrier from Paris. Veteran advocate Billy Downer, the man who brought down Zuma’s former financial adviser, Schabir Shaik, told the judge the case was in essence a continuation of the 2009 court roll, when the matter against Zuma was withdrawn. Downer said as a result of this year’s Supreme Court of Appeal judgment in Zuma vs the NDPP (National Director of Public Prosecutions) and DA, the matter was re-enrolled. He told the judge that the trial could start on November 12, as there was space on the criminal roll. Advocate Anton Katz SC, who appeared for Thales, said the French company would make representations to the Directorate of Public Prosecutions on the charges it faced. Downer told the court a group calling itself “SA Native Forum” had applied to the Western Cape High Court “to interfere with the trial”, but that would not influence the case.