Steve Komphela has resigned as coach of Kaizer Chiefs after fans ran on to the pitch and violently attacked security officials in the aftermath of the 2-0 Nedbank Cup semi-final defeat to Free State Stars at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Saturday night. Spectators at the 2010 Fifa World Cup venue invaded the pitch at the final whistle after initially throwing objects at Komphela and Chiefs players on the bench as it became clear that the Amakhosi were going to lose. Congolese midfielder Harris Tchilimbou scored both goals in the first half – the opening strike coming after around 45 seconds to stun Chiefs supporters, and the second in the 34th minute. Chiefs had a number of chances to score throughout the game, but were unable to finish, and the frustration boiled over at the end of the match. Despite a heavy police and security presence around the perimeter, spectators managed to break through the cordon and ran towards the Chiefs players, and Komphela was escorted away by police.   In the post-match press conference, Komphela announced that he was stepping down with immediate effect. According
to the @OfficialPSL Twitter feed, Chiefs football manager Bobby Motaung said at
the press conference: “We have had to do a lot of reality checks.
Players are not safe. People are not safe. The coach is not safe. The coach is
stepping down with immediate effect.”   Komphela
was quoted as saying: “To be honest, I don’t think we deserve the
results, but you can’t fault the players. So many missed opportunities. “What we saw today is not good for football. It calls for
reflection also from my side. About this club. About the future.  “If I’m the trigger for this (violence), then maybe one has
to say ‘maybe step aside... just stop the switch’.” The crowd invasion comes in the same week when the PSL fined Chiefs R250 000, of which R200 000 was suspended for 24 months, after fans pelted the players with objects at FNB Stadium after the 3-0 defeat to Chippa United on April 7. After the incident on Saturday night at Moses Mabhida Stadium, the Amakhosi are likely to have to pay the suspended R200 000, and face further sanctions. Their next match is an Absa Premiership encounter on Tuesday evening against home team Golden Arrows at the Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu (7.30pm kickoff). @ashfakmohamed IOL Sport Like IOL Sport on Facebook 