The gang pose as guests. They call the guest house  using fake foreign accents to tell staff an emergency has come up and they need to check out. As they head to the airport someone will pick up their luggage. The gang recently targeted a guest house in Green Point. Cher Poznanovich has been the owner of the Avatara Guest House for the past nine years without incident. On February 10 an Austrian couple booked in for a 10-night stay but decided to leave two nights later. On February 18, the day they were due to return, a woman phoned the guest house and told an employee, Godwin Munyama, to pack their bags as there was a family emergency and they were heading to the airport. Later that day the Austrian couple returned to find their luggage had been stolen and Munyama immediately took them to the Sea Point police station, where a case of theft was opened. At that stage all that had been stolen was clothing. But later that day the brazen thieves called Munyama again saying he had forgotten to pack their electronics. He called the police and a plan was made to arrest the perpetrators Sergeant Wayne Henderson wore civilian clothing and drove an unmarked car during the operation. “First they wanted me to go to the airport and then on the N2 the location changed to a hotel in Woodstock,” he said. “I waited outside the hotel for an hour and got another phone call to say I should leave it at reception but I said I couldn’t because it was valuable electronics.” Henderson said  he thought the perpetrators might have caught wind of the plan. Police believe the thieves could be linked to rental car companies because they require details about where travellers are staying and are able to track the car as well. They say similar cases have happened at other hotels and guest houses in Cape Town over the past couple of months and believe the thefts are being perpetrated by the same people. Poznanovich said she had asked her staff to be more vigilant. She was away on a hiking trip at the time of the incident. She said her staff told her the caller had sounded frantic and had a German accent. “We got a frantic call from a lady with a German accent to say there had been a death in the family and they had managed to get a flight out of the country and if we could pack their luggage and they would send a taxi to collect it, as they were already at the airport. “My assistant could not find anyone to call and so obliged. Luckilly, he thought to take a picture of the luggage as it was kind of strange, but since they knew key details of the guests he sent the luggage off.” The bogus guests threatened to sue saying their electronic equipment had been stolen. They have not. “I am of course covered through my insurance but it has been a very traumatic experience for all of us,”  said Poznanovich. Jeff Rosenberg of the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa said: “The recommendation to all our members is to be forthright with their questioning and err on the side of caution. As an industry we are doing all we can to insure the safety of our visitors.” No arrests have been made.