But for ability activist Michaela “Chaeli” Mycroft, changing society’s views on the capabilities and role of disabled children in South Africa and around the world is what drives her. Born with cerebral palsy and a degenerative neuropathy, 23-year-old Mycroft is the first female quadriplegic to reach the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro and the first wheelchair athlete to finish the Comrades Marathon. And she’s pushing the boundaries again - for five days starting tomorrow, she will take on yet another gruelling challenge - riding a horse for 75km in the Meerendal Wine Estate in Durbanville. The challenge is called #BetChaeliCant, a name chosen to address those sceptical of the feat she it attempting, change their perceptions and create awareness about the abilities of disabled people as well as their inclusion within society. Funds raised from the event will go the Chaeli Cottage Pre-school, anearly childhood development centre for disabled children, many from disadvantaged families. “For me it’s about changing perceptions. We all have challenges but it matters what we do about them,” said Mycroft. “This particular campaign is a call to action - asking people to get involved in helping to provide opportunities that disabled children would normally not be able to access - like education.” After her last practice session on Thursday, she felt well prepared for the challenge. “I have been practising since November and I feel good. Although I have a team that’s been helping me and will be with me during the challenge, I will be the only one on a horse. I’ve done Mount Kilimanjaro and the Comrades and now this horseback challenge, which is unique. I have not done horse riding in years. It requires endurance.” To understand the magnitude and significance of the horse challenge, one needs to understand Mycroft’s physical difficulties. Cerebral palsy affects movement in different parts of the body, with varying degrees of severity. People who have cerebral palsy struggle with motor control and have difficulty with posture, balance and movement. “At first Chaeli would not sit straight up on the horse when she started the practice sessions. The last time she did horse rising was when she was 11 years old. But she’s now sitting comfortably. Her body is now stronger and her mind as well,” said her mother and chief executive officer of the Chaeli Campaign, Zelda Mycroft. “What is remarkable about the challenge is that Chaeli is taking doubts... and turning them into a positive message.” According to physical therapist and professional animal wrangler Sarah Manning, the horse challenge will push Mycroft to the limits of her endurance. “Chaeli is going to need to work 10 times more than your average, able-bodied person.” Follow the challenge on Facebook: The Chaeli Campaign; Twitter: @TheChaeliCampaign; Instagram: @ChaeliCampaign