DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs football manager Bobby Motaung commended Steve Komphela for the strong foundation he has built at the club. Komphela resigned with immediate effect on Saturday night at Moses Mabhida Stadium after Chiefs were humiliated 2-0 by Free State Stars in a Nedbank Cup semi-final, thanks to a well-taken brace by Harris Tchilimbou. Amakhosi fans didn’t hide their anger, and stormed on to the pitch and threw missiles. Two security guards were taken to Addington Hospital after they were injured in trying to stop the fans. Speaking with the media after the match, Motaung was full of praise for Komphela. “Whoever in the future that must step in his shoes has got a cake baked and made for them just to eat,” he said. “We started the journey with Steve (three seasons ago), making sure that he revamped and changes the Kaizer Chiefs team and makes it what it is today. Steve Komphela resigns  “Unfortunately we have to be reasonable, the results are not happening, it is football. We still have confidence in Steve’s ability, but unfortunately, we are challenged. We are faced with a serious challenge. “We had the discussion with the coach – even now, let us do the honourable thing and not allow the situation to go on. A call has been made. “We had the discussion with the coach. To calm the situation, this decision is with immediate effect: that the coach is stepping down for responsibility sake and for accountability sake.” Komphela has had an unsuccessful stint of three seasons at Amakhosi. He reached two finals and lost both of them. “Discussions are still going to be held with the chairman (Kaizer Motaung), myself and the coach with the way forward, but for now, the coach is stepping down with immediate effect,” Bobby Motaung said. “Like he says, it is with respect and it is in a calm manner. We have to respect our supporters, we have to respect our fans and respect him as coach as well. PICS: Spectators run amok after Kaizer Chiefs lose  “He is family, and he is a man with integrity. I think we have to protect him. “In as much as we employed him, we made sure that we gave him an opportunity to grow.” Komphela’s contract was set to expire in June. “He is a better man I think than what he was when he came to Chiefs. That was our responsibility,” Motaung said. “Unfortunately, people are looking at results. It hurts because at the end of the day, it disrupts our plans for the future. The journey of football is about results at a big club like Kaizer Chiefs. READ MORE: How Kaizer Chiefs lost to Free State Stars  “For me, I want to thank the coach. Discussions are still going to be held. An official announcement and farewell will be done for the coach. “For now, for the safety of the people and all (we came to an agreement that he must step down),” Motaung concluded. @Minenhlecr7  IOL Sport Like IOL Sport on Facebook 