During each visit she made to Robben Island, Madikizela-Mandela was met by a familiar face, prison guard Christo Brand. The 58-year-old former prison warder was Nelson Mandela’s guard for 12-and-a-half years, following him from Robben Island to Pollsmoor and Victor Verster. He later penned his memoires in the book, Doing Life with Mandela, My Prisoner, My Friend, published in 2014. In the book, he recalled how Madikizela-Mandela managed to smuggle her four-month-old granddaughter, Zoleka, into the prison to meet her grandfather. He told Weekend Argus how he “received her from the boat at Robben Island and sat in on their visits. There was no communication allowed with visitors. But when I collected her from the boat, we would talk about the weather and small things”. Brand said he developed a friendship with her and Mandela during this time. He described her as a firebrand who stood up to authority. “I always had to receive her because some of the other warders didn’t want to communicate with her because they knew she was a 'troublemaker' If she didn’t get her way, she could become a little upset and there were times when Mandela had to calm her down. “We became friends knew where we stood with each other and respected each other,” said Brand, recalling that at times the couple’s prison meetings were tense. “Some visits, there were harsh words, where he (Mandela) talked very hard to her and she would just keep quiet and listen to him because she did not always do what he wanted, but then he would forgive her.” When Mandela divorced Madikizela-Mandela in 1996, Brand said it was a sad moment for him but he believed that the “love was still there”. “It was painful for me she looked after him for 27 years and they split up. She was the person behind Mandela but I was happy they would still see each other. Even when he passed on, she (sat) beside his bed holding his hand and that will always have my respect.” At the 2008 launch of Anna Trapido’s book, Hunger for Freedom: The Story of Food in the Life of Nelson Mandela, Brand’s copy was signed by Madikizela-Mandela. She wrote: “My dearest Brand. The wonderful memories we share are priceless! I remember how you refused to accept a gift from me because you were and still are so principled. Thanks for all the wonderful things you did for Madiba in prison. Only God can thank you. You are amazing.” During her Cape visits, she would stay in Elsies River at a house that was part of the underground political movement. It was from there that she would mobilise the ANC and UDF. Deputy Minister of Human Settlements and ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) member Zoliswa Kota-Fredericks worked with Madikizela-Mandela during this time and relied on her for support before the 1994 elections. “She had this formidable bravery and she helped me a lot before the elections to mobilise our base. You knew if you had Winnie with you, you could fill a stadium of supporters,” she said. Madikizela-Mandela was ANCWL president from 19932003, when she also served in Mandela’s cabinet. “There was a real sense of leadership during that time. She was adamant that we form a non-racial women’s organisation and had the foresight to support younger women too.”