As part of a countrywide seizure of properties, vehicles and bank accounts linked to the controversial Gupta family, the unit scooped up 10 Dawn Avenue, the lavish Constantia mansion that the Guptas purchased for R17million in 2005 from another foreigner of dubious repute, Mark Thatcher, the scandal-prone son of former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher. The AFU was enforcing a court order as part of a probe into the Estina Dairy Farm scandal. Thirteen people are facing charges linked to allegations that R250m of public money meant for poor Free State dairy farmers was siphoned off by the Guptas. Their Constantia mansion and other assets were placed “under restraint pending finalisation of the criminal case,” National Prosecution Authority spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said earlier this week. READ: NPA stops plans to sell Gupta mines Court documents allege the properties and other assets were purchased with the “proceeds of crime”. The Dawn Avenue property is listed in National Prosecuting Authority affidavits as owned by Islandsite Investments One Hundred & Eighty, a Gupta company that has since been placed under business rescue. Islandsite owns other properties in Cape Town, Saxonwold in Joburg, St Lucia in KwaZulu-Natal and elsewhere worth a total of R190m. Dawn Avenue is listed in the court order as worth R20m. It’s not the first time the sprawling, thatch-roofed mansion set on 8105m² of prime real estate has made headlines for the wrong reasons. Last year, it was mired in controversy when the city council approved a major building departure application for extensive renovations despite objections from neighbours and the Constantia Ratepayers and Residents Association keen to avoid a repeat of the Gupta compound in Saxonwold. The thatched house included seven reception rooms, a 20m² swimming pool, a private gym, a wine cellar, a walk-in freezer and an entertainment lapa. The Guptas planned to add a double-storey, three-bedroom second dwelling that would increase the total floor area to 1955m² - 437m² more than normally permitted. Also planned were enlarged staff quarters to accommodate a property manager, chef and three staffers; the replacement of the thatch roof with a concrete deck that would up the floor area by another 30%; a veranda juice bar and an improved lapa and gym. “Given the scale of proposals and the purported usage, we are concerned that this property would be used for purposes other than residential,” said the Constantia Ratepayers and Residents Association in a circular that opposed the renovations. The property with spectacular views across the city and False Bay was again in the news in February when it appeared someone had left the taps running. Although the Guptas had not been seen at the mansion for months and it was only occupied by three staff members, the property was using more than 20kilolitres a month. This prompted the council to install a water-management device. But not even the controversial Gupta family could rival the international headlines the property scooped in 2004 when Thatcher was arrested by the Scorpions in full sight of scores of journalists for his links to a failed coup in Equatorial Guinea. Thatcher dodged a night in jail after his mother Margaret Thatcher, who spent numerous holidays at his home, reportedly paid his R2m bail. The world’s press disrupted the tranquil Dawn Avenue as they camped outside Thatcher’s luxury pad for days while he grew accustomed to strict bail conditions. In January 2005, Thatcher pleaded guilty under a plea bargain in a Cape Town court to charges linked to the coup plot. He was fined R3m and received a four-year suspended prison sentence. He admitted to “unwittingly” financing the attempted coup, which failed after a group of mercenaries was arrested.