The name change could lead to higher ticket prices, said a senior economist. Some of the proposed names presented to the Department of Transport are Nelson Mandela, Albertina Sisulu, Winnie Madikizela Mandela and Robert Sobukwe. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande said Cape Town International Airport should be named after someone who fought against apartheid. “Our ultimate preoccupation is to ensure that we name this airport after one of our heroes or heroines who contributed immensely to the attainment of a democratic South Africa, one that is united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous,” said Nzimande. The Transport Department and the Arts and Culture department are still in the consultation process. Arts and Culture spokesperson Asanda Magaqa said that once the name changing process has been completed, it would be deposited with the South African Geographical Council - which falls under the Arts and Culture Department - for consideration. “The council holds meetings to determine which names to consider for different geographical features and which names to throw out; however airports are a special case since they are under the domain of Acsa (Airports Company South Africa). The process could be concluded by the end of the year and will involve multiple agencies chiming in on the matter.” Besides the name change, the airport will over the next few years undergo a R5.5 billion upgrade. Cape Town International Airport opened its doors in 1955. It was known as DF Malan Airport, named after the prime minister at the time. In the 1990s the name changed to its current name. “The first years of the 21st century saw huge development at the airport; from taking care of 6.2 million travellers a year in 2004 to 2005, the airport crested at 8.4 million travellers for every year in 2007 to 2008,” said Acsa spokesperson Deidre Davids. In recent years, the airport has averaged 11 million passengers a year.
Davids said Acsa “has a record of being supportive of name changes that have been implemented” after all the processes have been followed. Acsa will be responsible for the full implementation. “This includes executing all regulatory aspects, all stakeholder engagement, public participation and on-the-ground operational execution once a new name is adopted.” She said Acsa would also be responsible for the costs involved with the name change. It was too early to place a price tag on the process, she said. “I suspect that signage will be a significant cost driver. Within the context of the infrastructure developments we will most likely approach signage in a phased manner so that there are no wasteful expenditures.” She said other entities, like local government, will be affected. “Local government will consider road signage that needs to be changed. Tourism entities will need to change their marketing collateral and so forth.” Economist Dawie Roodt said calculating the costs of a name change could prove difficult as a lot of variables would influence the price tag. “It really depends what price you want to calculate. When you talk about things like actual name changes on documents and contracts then I guess a number like R2m to R3m is close to the mark,” he said. “But if you want to see what the wider implications for this would be, be, then the actual cost is much higher than that and could run from R10m up to R20m, including things like someone having to reprogramme their computer because they don’t have Cape Town Airport on it anymore. “There are costs involved in that and it would not be included in the R2m from direct changes. It is not something that will be paid overnight but will be spread over a few years. Western Cape DA leader Bonginkosi Madikezela said the party did not have a view on the name change. But in his personal capacity he felt that naming things after people was problematic. “It defocuses us from the real issues,” he said. Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Janine Myburgh said it should be named for Nelson Mandela. “He was universally admired and naming the airport after him would be a fitting tribute. It is a strong name that is instantly recognisable around the world and it is right for the airport which has been voted the best in Africa..” - Additional Reporting by Tshego Lepule Weekend Argus