This was revealed in the psychiatric report of Sheree Prince who stabbed Sandra Malcolm 24 times in April 2015 in the kitchen of her home in Capri Mews, Lakeside. The attack came after Malcolm, 74, heeded Prince’s warning not to call the police after she had broken in through a bathroom window. Instead, the pensioner made Prince tea and toast and treated her injured foot. When Malcolm offered to call an ambulance for Prince she stabbed the pensioner repeatedly in her throat, lungs, heart and other vital organs. Afterwards, Prince - dubbed the Lakeside Butcher in the tabloid press - disposed of her body parts in a wheelie bin. Prince, who was found guilty last month of premeditated murder and housebreaking, appeared on Thursday in the Western Cape High Court for the start of sentencing. But the matter was postponed until May 22 due to the unavailability of two witnesses the defence wants to call in mitigation of sentence. The State also indicated a social worker’s report required for sentencing was not yet complete. Hints of what is to come in that report are revealed in an earlier psychiatric report that declared Prince fit to stand trial. The report was compiled after 30 days’ observation at Valkenberg Hospital. It shows a dysfunctional upbringing that included prolonged substance abuse. “She (Prince) displayed conduct problems from an early age that included truancy, running away from home, destructive and aggressive behaviour, alcohol, tik (crystal meth) and dagga (marijuana) misuse,” according to the report. Prince’s teachers complained of poor progress and behaviour and she left school in Grade 10 when she was 17. She also “impressed as being of borderline intelligence (IQ: 70-85),” according to the report. Malcolm’s daughter Alison Williams, said after Thursday’s hearing, she or her family did not want to comment on the trial until after sentencing. Due to the premeditated murder verdict, it is likely she will be sentenced to life imprisonment on May 28. Weekend Argus