This season was filmed in the Philippines, and during the shoot in February, 12 journalists from across South Africa were whisked away on a week-long island adventure to the Philippines. In mid-February, I flew to Johannesburg to meet the group and their M-Net chaperone. From there, we flew to Hong Kong, then Manila, and Puerto Princesa in the Philippines and then drove about six hours to El Nido. Early the next morning, we were taken by boat over choppy waters to our location to play the game of Survivor. The boat stopped short of the beach and we were told some of us needed to swim to collect supplies from a floating structure, while the others had to swim to a wooden raft to haul up the supplies. I chose to swim to the raft as I am not a strong swimmer and the raft didn’t seem too far from our boat. As I jumped into the magnificently blue water, I soon realised I had underestimated the distance of the tiring swim. Once I reached the raft, I quickly pulled myself onto it, mostly out of fear of the rock fish and sea snakes I had heard about. Despite my own exhaustion, I found the energy to help those struggling to get onto the raft. We hauled up the supplies and rowed to the shore. I carried some of my fellow tribe members over the razor-sharp coral as they didn’t have shoes. The real challenges began when we needed to build a shelter and make a fire. All I will say about our shelter is that if we had stayed over on the island, we would have not survived the night! After a few attempts and some bloody hands from machete nicks, some members of our tribe managed to start the fire so we could boil rice for our rumbling tummies. For me, the minute the game started, the paranoia hit. I can only imagine what it feels like for the real contestants - one day on that island with mostly strangers and not knowing who to trust was more than enough for me. After spending much of the day trying to finish our shelter, a boat arrived to take us to play our individual immunity challenge. Survivor host Nico Panagio welcomed us and briefed us on the challenge. We were then divided into two groups - as there were two immunity idols up for grabs. As I waited for the first group to finish - behind a high screen - I tried psyching myself up. I am quite short and was never a fast runner, but I knew that years of dancing would come in handy as the challenge required a lot of balance and co-ordination. It was our turn. Our nerves were racing. As I stood at my starting spot I felt like I couldn’t breathe. “Go!” shouted Nico. I made my way over a see-sawing balance beam, down to another balance beam which was on a decline and then over another beam which was over a mud pit. Once over the mud pit, we had to collect nine large blocks with symbols on them. Not all the blocks could be carried over at the same time and I must have gone back and forth three times to complete the task. At one point I felt so exhausted, I wasn’t sure if I was going to faint or throw up, but the adrenalin kept me going. Then we had to go back and memorise the order of the symbols on our blocks, return to our post and arrange our blocks accordingly. I was the first to call Nico to check my blocks. He took his time delivering the verdict -- I could feel the adrenalin coursing through my body. He told me everything 
was in the correct order but that some of the symbols were facing the wrong way. After running back to view the order I returned to my post and realised only one block was incorrect, but by that time one of my other tribe members called for Nico and he won the challenge instead. So close, I could kick myself! At least now I know what I am capable of, even against strong competitors. Some of my tribe members said I was the dark horse as they never expected me to do that well in the challenge. Next stop was the tribal council and, because I didn’t have that immunity idol, I felt vulnerable. Nico asked us questions and we had some great laughs. Then we cast our votes and waited. I was so relieved not to hear my name being called. There was a tie and two people were voted off. Sadly, we didn’t get to spend the night on our beach because of bad weather, but this was probably a good thing as we had not completed our shelter. But, what an experience! Ours was a mere few hours, not 39 days, I’m not sure how these survivor contestants do it. To see the real Survivor contestants rough it out tune in to M-Net on Thursday at 7pm.