CAPE TOWN - As South Africans mourn the loss of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela we take a look at the heirs to the Madikizela-Mandela family. Winnie and the late Nelson Mandela share two children, Zindziswa Mandela and Zenani Mandela. For the most part, the two daughters have stayed relatively out of the South African limelight, especially in comparison to their famous parents. South African politician, Zindziswa has been serving as the ambassador to Denmark since 2015. Zindziswa was born on December 23, 1960. During her mother’s exile to the Free State in 1977, Zindziswa was reportedly unable to complete her education. However in 1985, Zindziswa earned her BA degree at the University of Cape Town. File image: Winnie Mandela ( left) and second daughter, Zindzi Mandela. (Picture :neil baynes 13). IOL. A POET It may be surprising to know that she is poet and has had some of her work published in the book "Black as I am". Zindziswa was also the stand-in First lady of South Africa from 1996 until 1998, after her parents' divorce. From her two marriages, Zindziswa has four children, Zoleka Mandela, Zondwa Mandela, Bambatha Mandela and Zwelabo Mandela. READ ALSO: Winnie's courage inspired people - ANC's Magashule Zenani Mandela-Dlamini is also a South African diplomat. Zenani was born on February 24, 1958, this was a year before her mother was arrested and her father was sent to prison. She studied at Waterford Kamhlaba United World College of Southern Africa. She then furthered her education in science at Boston University. It was here that she met Prince Thumbumuzi Dlamini of Swaziland, her future husband. She went on to marry the Prince in 1973. The pair co-own consultancy company, Mandela, Dlamini and Associates (International Business Consultants) and share four children: Zaziwe, Zamaswazi, Zinhle and Zozuko. Zenani was appointed a South African diplomat to Argentina in 2012. Meanwhile, little is known about Winnie's assets and how it will be split. Just at the beginning of the year, Winnie lost an appeal to claim Nelson Mandela's home in the rural village of Qunu in the Eastern Cape. The minister of land affairs ceded the property to Mandela in 1997. Winnie then challenged the minister's decision by launching a legal review in October 2014. The appeal was dismissed in 2016 and in January this year, the Supreme Court of Appeal finally dismissed Winnie's final appeal. Although Winnie's will is not yet public, the probability is that both daughters may receive the bulk of the estate. In 2013, Nelson Mandela gave his two daughters R3 million each. In addition, their children also inherited R100 000 each as well as Mandela's great grandchildren. ALSO READ: Winnie's name foretold a life of struggle TOP STORY: Credibility of Zimbabwe’s first post-Mugabe vote is on the line WATCH  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE