From April 1 VAT went up by one percentage point, from 14% to 15%, but in actual fact consumers are paying 0.7-0.8% more for food, depending on what is in their basket. The National Agricultural Marketing Council’s (NAMC’s)Christo Joubert said it was too early to determine the impact of the increase in VAT on consumers but it could have led to a change in spending patterns, with some consumers moving from one product to another. However, Joubert said the listeriosis outbreak had led to farmers being hit by a decrease in protein prices, but at the retail level this had still not been passed on to consumers. Pork prices had started to come down but not as significantly as expected. “These issues are concerning and hopefully a resolution will be found soon,” he said. The NAMC monitors food prices at retail level and, based on 28 items it selects, releases reports on food-price trends. According to its latest report, food inflation decelerated to 3.9% in February this year from 4.5% in January as a result of a decline in agricultural commodity prices. However, egg prices remained high as a result of the avian flu outbreak. In February, the cost of the 28 items in the NAMC’s food basket, which included maize meal, baked and dried beans, chicken, cabbage, apples, eggs, tinned fish and fresh milk cost R860, down from R874 in January. However, some items such as Ceylon black tea, eggs, fresh mince, chicken portions and cabbage exceeded the inflation band of 6%. An economist at the University of Stellenbosch Business School, professor Andre Roux, said VAT in South Africa was relatively lower than in most countries, and consumers would in real terms be paying up to 0.8% more for some products as a result of the one percentage point increase. “What we don’t know is whether or not sellers will raise their products by this percentage or more,” he said. Roux said from about the end of 2016 to the beginning of 2017, food inflation was at about 12% due to the severe national drought, but had come down drastically to about 4.5% at the beginning of this year. He said food inflation was expected to continue to ease in the coming months but this depended on an absence of negative developments such as an outbreak of bird flu and negative indirect infuences such as unfavourable oil prices and exchange rates.