Switching to a Paleo lifestyle - which restricts one from eating any grains, dairy, refined sugars and legumes - presented us with a challenge when we had friends and family over. Initially we felt obliged to continue to offer our guests sugar-laden treats, crisps loaded with MSG and the obligatory crackers and cheese. But I’ll admit, it felt wrong - even hypocritical - that while we avoided these foods, we were willing to serve them to our guests. The next time we entertained, we put only Paleo-friendly foods on the table. And guess what, no one complained or went home hungry. The problem is that we’ve become so accustomed to serving high-carb, sugary treats like crisps, sweets, chocolates, crackers, cheese and over-processed, ready-made dips that we’ve forgotten how to get creative about what we put in our bodies. Among the many ideas we have picked up was a simple recipe for sugar-free, dairy-free chocolate made with coconut oil and cacao, and sweetened with honey. We sometimes add nuts, cranberries or seeds, and this is what we’ll be sharing with our family instead of Easter eggs. In the past, Chantel the entertainer was known as the cheese queen. Come to my place for a party and you’d eat cheese to your heart’s content. And crackers too. With some minor adjustments I’ve made my parties more Paleo-friendly by serving things like biltong and nuts, fresh fruit, home-made meatballs, home-baked coconut bread with sliced meat, and dips made with puréed veggies. We give our guests the option of having fruit-infused water instead of sugary drinks if they don’t want to drink alcohol. I’ve even become quite adept at baking with nut flours - and who would have thought that whipped coconut cream could be just as delicious as its dairy counterpart? It can also be used as an alternative to milk in warm beverages, but don’t use too much because it’s very rich. For Easter, we adapted our favourite dishes traditionally prepared over this time. Not willing to forego pickled fish, a Good Friday staple, we found a Paleo-friendly recipe which replaces the obligatory sugar with a date and apricot paste, and the vinegar with a coconut stock. I, as the baker in the house, took responsibility for the buns - which I made with coconut and almond flours and sweetened with honey and sultanas. However, regular wheat flours cannot simply be replaced with the same quantity of nut flour - and one uses more eggs when baking grain-free because low-carb flours are generally very thirsty. For example, the coconut bread I make takes just less than a cup of coconut flour, but requires six eggs. So, if you don’t want to waste ingredients experimenting, best to look up a tried-and-tested method on the internet. I’m signing off this week with one of my favourite Paleo alternatives - egg coffee. When I cut dairy from my diet, cappuccino was no longer an option. Then I discovered local blogger Melissa Thomas’s recipe for what she calls “titanium coffee”, which has a similar consistency. Simply whisk together, with a stick blender, three-quarters of a cup of coffee, two teaspoons of coconut oil, a teaspoon of vanilla extract and a raw egg. Don’t knock it till you try it. You can check out my blog at www.editedeating.co.za or follow @editedeating on social media.