Cardi B has offered her advice to Khloe Kardashian on how to deal with the cheating allegations involving her relationship with Tristan Thompson. The 'MotorSport' rapper is expecting her first child with her rapper fiancé Offset, who she faced similar rumours with, and has given out some words of advice to the 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' star after her NBA basketball player boyfriend was accused of being unfaithful as she gave birth this week. She also said that the world needs to let the couple get on with it, and not make assumptions as they have no idea what's going on in their relationship. Read: Tristan Thompson buys Khloe Kardashian a R676k push present Speaking on the Big Boy's Neighbourhood radio show on Friday, Cardi said: "Do what your heart feel like doing. At the end of the day, everybody wanna act like they date deacons and pastors and their relationship is perfect. "You don't know what type of things going on in their relationship. People make it seem like this happened two weeks ago. Let them work things out." The 25-year-old beauty says that she and the Migos star have worked hard to maintain their relationship and learned to see through one another's imperfections. She admitted: "Like I said, in the beginning of our relationship we had our doubts about each other, things weren't perfect. "I had my suspicions but we kept stuff private between us. We just worked it out." Cardi called on her family for advice through the tough time and was encouraged by her father to work things out with Offset. She said: "Everybody was like let it go, but the people that love me, and know me, and know us, was telling me to work it out. "My dad drives me around and everything, and he saw the whole thing when I was sad and everything and he said, 'I really think you two should work it out.'" Khloe and Tristan welcomed their baby daughter into the world on Thursday (12.04.18), but the birth was overshadowed by the video footage which surfaced earlier in the week, which seemingly showed Tristan leaning in for a kiss with a mystery woman. However, it has now been claimed that both Khloe and Tristan, 27, have agreed to "move past" their drama in order to focus on their new arrival.