The Mother of the Nation died on Monday at the age of 81. Her state funeral is to be held on April 14. Cape Town celebrated Madikizela-Mandela’s life with an interfaith service held at St George’s Cathedral on Thursday evening. It was attended by hundreds of mourners, including mayor Patricia de Lille, former finance minister Trevor Manuel, National Assembly Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenodi, ANC NEC member Zizi Kodwa and former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor. Speakers praised Madikizela-Mandela for her defiant and courageous spirit. They highlighted her strength and bravery, the sacrifices she made and her determination to fight the injustices of apartheid. Mentor, who said she would always remember Madikizela-Mandela for her generosity and good heart, called her “futuristic”, 
saying she had tackled the land issue almost two decades ago. “She said our Struggle was about the land and its production. The land must be expropriated and redistributed,” said Mentor. Cosatu regional secretary Tony Ehrenreich commended Madikizela-Mandela for remaining with the people of Soweto. He also praised her compassion. “You were not the Mother of the Nation because you were married to the Father of the Nation, but because you showed compassion and love and dedicated your life to your country,” he said. Ehrenreich described Madikizela-Mandela as the “light in the darkest days of apartheid that shone the way to the future. “You were the leader when many of our leaders were in exile and nobody else could take the stand against oppression. “You were the inspiration that moved our nation in the darkest days when hope was fading. “You were the general that organised our army in the people’s war against apartheid. Comrade Winnie, it was your bravery that taught us to be brave.” The provincial spokesperson for the ANC Women’s League, Wendy Hlazo, said the league was proud to have been 
associated with a woman of such stature. “We pride ourselves to be associated with this gallant, towering figure of the resistance against apartheid, the Mother of the Nation who earned the name through her unwavering support for 
the oppressed and the 
poor communities. “Mama was not just a political figure, she was also a qualified social worker, which fitted very well with her motherly passion of helping those in need.” Former public protector Thuli Madonsela tweeted: “A flower that bloomed 
in adversity, a baobab tree that refused to bow down to the wind that was Mama Winnie Madikizela-
Mandela”. EFF leader Julius Malema tweeted: “We sent you flowers while you were still alive because we were absolutely and fully in love with you and what you stood for. “You also showed us love by always putting your arms around us, hugging, holding our hands, kissing us, but above all by always being honest with us.” Earlier this week, advocate Dali Mpofu, Malema and EFF secretary general Floyd Shivambu, along with hundreds of party supporters, visited the family home in Soweto. See page 19 for the speech made by Trevor Manuel at the memorial service.