Freedom Day, April 27, marks the liberation of all South Africans and the first democratic election. But for many Capetonians who were forcibly removed from their homes the legacy of the Group Areas Act still exists and little has changed. Over the past two decades the process of restitution has been tedious, slow and unsatisfactory. Gawa Mohamed, 62, was born in District Six and lived with her parents at number 7 Petersen Street. She attended Trafalgar High School. Her family were forced to move from their home to Mitchells Plain in 1973. Mohamed has been on a waiting list for a pensioner’s cottage for the past three years but is also in the process of applying for restitution for her family home that was destroyed in District Six. “They say there are a lot of people who are on the list before me so it’s going to take a long time to get the cottage. I don’t want a house back in District Six because it’s not the same. I would rather like the money so that I can get myself something better,” she said. After moving to Mitchells Plain she lived there for three years before marrying her husband and moving to Salt River, where she lived for 26 years before moving to Maitland. Five years ago her husband left her in a divorce with almost nothing to her name. She collects a government pension of R1680 a month. “I’ve been living with different friends for the past five years. Now I live here in Belgravia and I pay R1000 for the room,” she said. “International buyers come in here and buy everything. I can’t afford to pay what they are charging to live there. “There is no democracy. I tell all my friends I don’t vote for the ANC or DA or whatever because what’s the point?” The Restitution of Land Rights Amendment Bill provides for the re-opening of the lodgement of land claims by those who missed the December 31, 1998 deadline. The lodgement period for restitution claims was reopened on July 1, 2014. People can lodge claims until June 30, 2019. Land claimant Wasima Fisher was born in 1960 and lived in a house owned by her grandparents in Goodwood. They were forced to move. “Goodwood was a thriving mixed community and had schools, nursery schools, churches, a mosque, good transport links to Cape Town. “It was a safe, cohesive community and everything was in walking distance,” she said. In 1965 she moved to Elsies River, which she described as a culture shock Fisher has had mixed results with the restitution process, but said the process remained difficult in District Six. She made a claim for her grandparents’ home in Kalk Bay. “We did benefit from this. The family was paid out. “As for District Six, my aunt who lived there did participate initially, but became affected by the infighting. She has passed away now and I don’t know if she ever received any benefit from this process.” Councillor Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for transport and urban development, said restitution and redevelopment was the responsibility of the national government. . Herron said restitution in District Six had the potential to spatially transform the city significantly. “It is quite shameful that 24 years after democracy those forcefully evicted from their homes are still waiting for justice and for their promised restitution,” he said. Herron said he would approach the new minister of rural development and land affairs, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, to look into District Six as a matter of urgency.