The Wild Rescue wildlife sanctuary and nature reserve opened last year after founder Gill Simpson invested her entire life savings in the project. Buying the property and developing it is estimated to have cost about R5 million. Wild Rescue is in Klipfontein Nature Reserve, between Riversdale and Stilbaai. The reserve is 165 hectares of beautiful scenery and the ideal location for a dedicated animal sanctuary. On Thursday, representatives from Wild Rescue held an auction at the African Pride 15 On Orange Hotel in Cape Town to raise funds. The organisation had hoped to raise R300000 but made only R100000 on the night. Those who would like to contribute to Wild Rescue can get its banking details from its website. The items for auction ranged from paintings and books to weekend getaway packages and cases of wine. All the items were donated, as was the use of the venue and catering for the evening. Wild Rescue chairperson Frank Molteno said the Western Cape was in dire need of a facility like the one they were trying to establish. “Our province does not currently have a facility like the one we are creating. Wild Rescue is desperately needed to save animals which have been injured or orphaned as a consequence of human incursion into their habitat, from being euthanised or worse,” he said. The plan was to create a semi-natural environment for the animals to live in, should they not be able to return to the wild, to construct enclosures and stock the clinic with equipment and supplies. The clinic was in the process of being completed. “Our aims are, in a nutshell, to rescue, rehabilitate and release (animals) wherever possible, or provide them with sanctuary where not possible, as well as, in the process, to contribute to educating the public about the animals with whom we share the earth. “The underlying aim in respect of the latter is to encourage humane and compassionate living with each other as human beings and alongside our fellow creatures,” said Molteno . Simpson said there were many species on the property. “The wild animals which occur in and around Wild Rescue include caracal, jackal, angulate tortoises, bush buck, Cape grysbok, several species of mongoose, Cape hare, snakes, fish eagles and numerous other species of birds.” The property has two thatched cottages. The accommodation portion of Wild Rescue has been operating since last year.