If Zuma does go on to tie the knot with Conco, she will be his 7th bride and the youngest, with a 52-year age gap between them. Conco, who reportedly checked into a Durban hospital as “Mrs Zuma”, gave birth to the youngest Zuma son on April 12, which was coincidentally Zuma’s birthday. Constitutional law expert Professor Shadrack Gutto said Zuma’s newborn and wife-to-be would not qualify for any presidential benefits. “The state can only cater for those who were his children while he was still president. It does not mean that every person who has a child with Zuma will be given state funds and protection,” said Gutto. He said Zuma would have to make private arrangements for the welfare of Conco and their son. Bhekumuzi Zuma of the KwaNxamalala clan in Nkandla said there was nothing untoward about him taking another wife. “He showed that he was an honest man by paying lobola for her. “How many men out there use young girls and dump them like rubbish when they are fed up?” Explaining the lobola process, Bhekumuzi said: “This is a first step for a couple who are on the road to marriage. There are steps that follow lobola between families of the couples. Don’t be misled, this is part of our culture.” Zuma’s brother, Khanya, 73, said: “I’m also taking a second wife soon. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it because we are not hiding these women but we are making them feel proud by marrying them. “The Nxamalalas are amasoka. We love and take good care of women and we don’t hide that fact like other men do,” said Khanya. He said paying lobola was a long-standing Zulu tradition Conco, a former presenter at Pietermaritzburg-based uMgungundlovu FM hails from Thornville. She attended Haythorne Secondary School in Woodlands, Pietermaritzburg, and went on to study a business course at Varsity College in the same town, according to her former colleagues at the radio 
station. Her close friends said she had always bragged that she was in a romantic relationship with Zuma since 2013, who she referred to as uBaba (father). It’s believed that Conco now resides at an estate in Zimbali. Her Instagram account has seen her amass more than 5000 followers and is popular on the picture sharing application, with hundreds of likes for her pictures. In one picture she showed off, what is believed to be the engagement ring that Zuma proposed with. The former president is also married to Bongi Ngema, Gertrude Sizakele Khumalo Tobeka Madiba and is reportedly separated from Nompumelelo MaNtuli. Zuma divorced Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in 1998. Dlamini Zuma, who is the current minister in the presidency, has four children with him, while his Mozambican wife, Kate Mantsho allegedly committed suicide in 2000. Villagers in Nkandla were stunned about the news. But Hlobisile Hadebe, 52, said: “It’s the first time I’m hearing about it but according to our culture 
there is nothing wrong with that. I was also born in a polygamous family.”