Virginity testing lobbyist Nonkanyiso Conco, 24, confirmed to media yesterday 
that she is about to become the next Mrs Zuma, a week after she gave birth to his baby at the Busamed Private Hospital in Hillcrest, KwaZulu-Natal. This is Zuma’s 23rd known child. He is 76. The two families are believed to be ecstatic and it is reported that Zuma has already paid lobola. Not much is known about the new bride and it is not known how the couple met. But it appears she had a crush on the elder statesman even as a teenager. It could have been the time when they first locked eyes on each other. On September 3, 2013, she tweeted, a day after the annual reed dance: “Don’t believe this OMG!!! Am going back to that Hollywood house to spend the whole weekend this time! #Zuma’s home @ Nkandla! Whop can’t wait”. At the time, Conco was the director of the Nomkhubulwane Culture and Young Development Organisation in Pietermaritzburg and was a strong advocate for virginity testing and abstinence. This is noted in a controversial comment she made to Independent Media in 2013. Then, she said that opening the reed dance festival to 
other races would dilute the value of the ceremony. She said anyone who participated in the ceremony should do it in a Zulu traditional way, or not do so at all. “First, those Indian and white women should go through virginity testing in a traditional way. “I get tested every month. As we were waiting to collect the reeds, police pushed us 
aside to open a space for 
Ella to pick up the reed ahead of us and lead us. I felt undermined and insulted,” said Conco. Founder of the organisation Nomagugu Ngobese said she didn’t want to get involved by commenting on the matter as Conco is no longer with their organisation. Also mum on the future nuptials was Zuma’s spokesperson Vukile Mathabela. “On such matters it’s a family thing, so you can try to get Edward Zuma and all those people who are family spokespeople because it’s a family matter and we don’t get involved”. Twitter was divided over the matter. @Phumele Magacayi seemed to support Zuma’s decision, saying that it’s isizulu custom that an old respected man takes a young wife for his old age. “In isizulu it’s called indlu yokugugela which means retirement home”. Msholozi was also praised for his actions on Twitter by @sihlenotwabaza who said Zuma was leading by example. “He’s reducing the percentage of absent fathers, him marrying this girl is deeper than just two individuals becoming husband and wife. Let’s be positive this child will grow with both parents”. Others didn’t take to it kindly. Luphondo@BabalwaLuphondo said “Our parents went to Durban to support you for the fraud case pinned against you, now we the laughing stocks of the nation for having your back. Come on baba!’’ The first Mrs Zuma was Gertrude Sizakele Khumalo, also known as MaKhumalo. They were married in 1973. Also during the 70s Zuma wed Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. They have four children - Msholozi, Gugu, Thuli, and Thuthukile and divorced in 1998. In 1976, he married Kate Mantsho, who died in an apparent suicide in 2002. Their children are Saady, twins Duduzile 
and Duduzane, Phumzile, and Vusi. It was a while before Zuma decided to settle down with number four. This was Nompumelelo Ntuli Zuma (MaNtuli). MaNtuli and Zuma separated following an affair with her bodyguard. Two years later he married Gloria Bongi Ngema-Zuma. That same year, Zuma admitted to fathering a child with his friend’s daughter. Sonono Khoza is the daughter of football administrator Irvin Khoza. There could even be more Mrs Zumas in the future. In 2002, it was reported that Zuma paid 10 cows for a 
Swazi princess, but the marriage has not been officially announced.