Alletta Buns has worked on farms all her life. She moved to Klein Akker about a year ago when the farm she had been living and working on for six years was sold. Buns has now joined more than 100 Scottsdene backyard dwellers who were evicted from the Sunset Village flats owned by AFHCO Calgro M3 Consortium during the Easter weekend.  She has done this with the hope of one day also benefiting from any housing opportunities that may come the way of the Scottsdene community. Early last year, Buns was taken in by Salome and Greg Paulse and now shares their modest one-room shack which has no electricity, water or any working toilets. Salome is a stroke survivor and has lost the use of her right hand and says having Buns in the house has been helpful. On Thursday the two women joined a housing march from Scottsdene to the Kraaifontein municipal office in Belmont Park to deliver a memorandum to city councillor Grant Twigg.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “(We hope) the city will see our pain and help us. I am old and she (Paulse) had a stroke. “This is no place for us to live, we would like proper housing with water and sanitation,” said Buns, who, in spite of her age and failing health, is responsible for the upkeep of their home. As they invited the Weekend Argus team into their dwelling, she looked for a candlestick to light the room. Under the table where she placed the candle was a pile of firewood they use to cook their food in an area just outside the front door. “We use candles, we cook with an open fire outside and there are dogs and children around here and when it is windy anything can happen. “I am old and suffer from hypertension, diabetes and arthritis. She (Paulse) has only one hand that works and uses a crutch most of the time because she had a stroke a few years ago. We can not continue to live like this,” Buns said. The small informal settlement where they live is a crime hotspot where drug and alcohol abuse remain rife. Buns worries about her and her new family’s safety, and the risk of fires during the night. Thursday’s protest saw a group of about 100 people march from the privately owned flats where about 120 families were evicted from the flats on March 29 by Vetus Schola protection services at the request of the developers of the flats, AFHCO Calgro M3 Consortium, to Twigg’s office. Twigg accepted the group’s two-page memorandum which demanded an explanation of how Calgro was sold land they claim was earmarked for low-cost housing, that the city does a detailed audit of the backyard dwellers and the restoration of all burnt and dilapidated flats in the greater Kraaifontein area.