Durban - The alleged drunk driver of a bakkie which collided head-on into a car, killing eight family members in Umzumbe on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast has been granted bail. South Coast news website, ehowzit.co.za reported that the 63-year-old driver of the bakkie appeared in the Port Shepstone Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of drunk driving. He was granted bail of R5 000 and the case was postponed to May 18 for further investigation. In a statement, MEC for Transport Community Safety and Liaison,  Mxolisi Kaunda said the driver of the bakkie escaped the crash unharmed but was found to have been over the legal alcohol limit. The man was arrested at the scene and taken to the Hibberdene police station where he was charged with culpable homicide This after eight family members, aged between 4 and 52 died on impact when the Golf 1 they were travelling in crashed into the Ford Ranger allegedly being driven by the 63-year-old Ramsgate man. The crash occurred on the N2 near Umzumbe. Among the dead were Veroshnie Ramparsad, her husband Mitchell Roland Mahabeer, her mother Loraine, and Mitchell’s brother Jesse. The couple's four children Isabella, Titus, Hannah and Liya, aged between 4 and 12, also died. The family who lives in Pietermaritzburg were on their way home from visiting family on the South Coast when the crash occurred. Kaunda said he instructed a team forensic experts to fast-track investigations into the "real cause of this horrendous crash". “It is always worrying to experience a loss of so many lives in one crash. It is most disturbing to note that four of the deceased are children whose future has been robbed due to negligence and lawlessness. Our law enforcement agencies have been working around the clock prior to and during the festive season hype, and this was done to save lives and to deal with lawbreakers. Our road safety educational programmes were vigorously rolled out to advocate for safer roads. It is clear that we have to redouble our efforts to change people’s mindsets on road safety and respect for road traffic rules and signs,” he said. Kaunda decried continued disregard for life shown by drivers who drink and drive and those speed above regulated limits. Kaunda said motorist whose negligence results in a loss of lives should be charged with murder instead of culpable homicide. Daily News