Mthembu was once Ntuli’s fiancée. The relationship ended in 2016 after he allegedly brutally assaulted her and she was admitted to hospital with a broken ankle, she said. After that her life became a nightmare as Ntuli allegedly stalked her and threatened her family. In May, she appealed to the police to fully investigate the incidents of harassment and the criminal charges she had laid against him. If Mthembu’s allegations are true, they are a damning indictment of how the criminal justice system is failing women. Also read: Siam Lee would be alive today if police acted on 'psycho' suspect In an 11-page appeal submitted to Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula, she requested an intervention. “I believe he (Ntuli) is a serious threat to society in general due to his inability to respect or empathise with those around him, including his own family, and the law,” it read in part. She said her mother’s car had been set alight and her mother was later murdered. Although there was no direct evidence Ntuli was involved, Mthembu had deep suspicions. “The fear I had for my life after my mother’s passing put me in a state where I could no longer attend university. “I had to de-register from doing my masters. I had to then be admitted to the St Joseph’s Psychiatric Hospital in Durban,” Mthembu told the police. Also read: From beauty queen to punching bag But Ntuli allegedly continued harassing her, even while she was in the psychiatric facility. After she applied for a protection order, he left her alone for a while and then started stalking her again, she said. “I proceeded with my life and to re-enrol to do my masters. Then I received a call from a friend in Durban who told me that Ntuli was outside her house and had been vandalising her property by throwing bricks and bottles.” Mthembu said Ntuli threatened her about the lobola money he had paid to her family and asked her to pay it back. She did so, hoping he would leave her alone. But she said he continued stalking her. She moved from place to place so he couldn’t find her. “He continued to send me text messages saying he would find me and make an example of me, as well as messages mocking my mother’s death, amused that the killers hadn’t been arrested, which made me wonder how he knew this,” said Mthembu. She claimed he went to her neighbourhood and posted flyers with “rude and disrespectful” messages about her and her family on neighbours’ gates. She eventually opened cases against him for alleged arson, murder, vandalism, intimidation, attempted murder, crimen injuria and kidnapping. But she said none of the cases had been properly 
investigated. She ended her appeal to the police minister by saying Ntuli was a dangerous individual who has “got away with too much”. “He reflects the behaviour of a narcissist and a psychopath, as he continues to believe he is above everything and everyone, including the law. “Please may I receive urgent assistance in this matter due to the many lives in danger because of a single 
individual.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE