Durban - A sickly unemployed Chatsworth father claims he has battled to find a school for his two children after allegedly being turned away because his family is poor. What hurts, he said, was being labelled as “dirty” and “trouble-makers”. The father of four, whose name is being withheld to protect the identity of the children, alleges he and his children had been turned away by three schools. The 30-year-old man, his wife, 29, and children live in a tiny rented room in Welbedacht. He said he had been trying to find placement for his 10-year-old daughter and his 8-year-old son after removing them from school in August 2016 due to an unforeseen financial situation. The children would need to repeat Grades 2 and 1, respectively. “I had been working for a security company when I had suddenly collapsed and was rushed to hospital where I was diagnosed with diabetes, high blood pressure and a heart condition. I have to be on daily medication. “After that incident my employer said he would have to let me go as I would not be able to fulfil my duties due to my condition,” he said. “It was at that time I had my children placed at two separate schools in different areas in Chatsworth, but after I lost my job I could no longer afford to pay for them to travel to school every day and had taken them out.” The man, who makes and sells pickles to earn a little income, had managed to save R500 to register his two eldest children. He approached their former schools last week, but was allegedly turned away and told they should look for a school near their home. The mother said they were embarrassed in front of other parents when they approached their son’s school, alleging the principal claimed the boy had a “disease” because of sores on his hand. But his mother said the sores had been treated immediately. They were also allegedly told the boy’s school clothes were “dirty and old”. “We are poor people and cannot afford to buy our children brand new uniforms or even stationery, but whatever hand-me-downs we were given I would always make sure to wash and iron it,” she said. On Wednesday the father approached another Chatsworth-area school for placement. He claimed the school had accepted the registration fee but two days later called him back saying the children would not be accepted. “The principal said he contacted the principal from my daughter’s previous school for her transfer card and was told our family were ‘trouble-makers’, as he (the other principal) had problems with my wife’s sister’s family.” The father said he had approached other schools, too, but they were full. “I am trying every possible way to get my children into school; I even approached Child Welfare but was told it was not their duty,” he said. “Education is a basic right and necessity, so why deny my children that right? “I feel because we are poor, we are being turned away. I am really struggling to give my children a future and without providing them with education, how will they succeed in life? “I don’t want them to be in my position when they grow up.” He said he had not lost faith in humanity. “I am desperately in need of help from a good Samaritan that can help change our lives.” KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson Muzi Mhlambi said they would be sending their district officials to investigate as this was a violation of the constitution. “All school-going age children attending a public school cannot be denied their right to education, irrespective of their family status - be it poor or rich, they should not have been turned away,” Mhlambi said. “This matter will be investigated by the department.” POST