Her husband is currently in hospital recovering from his wounds. Yvonne Cormack, 67, from the UK said she and her husband were hiking with a group of seven other hikers on Saturday when they were attacked by two men. “It was around 10am in the Silvermine Nature Reserve. We were walking and the guys came running at us with knives. They first attacked one of the women, who was  standing on a rock taking photos. “Then they told us to throw our phones and bags to the ground. Next they started attacking my husband Don (Cormack, 71), who they stabbed nine times all over his body. I took a stick and started hitting at the robber then he started stabbing me too. He stabbed me in my arm and back of my head. “I screamed at Don to give him his bag which Don did and I also gave them mine. Then they attacked Don again. The other robber followed one of the other hikers, who ran to get a phone signal to call for help. His face was brutally damaged after he was hit with a rock. He is in a critical condition in hospital. "They operated on him for four hours. Another hiker’s face was also smashed with a rock. They attacked five of us. After they took our bags and phones they left. “The others luckily found a group not far from us who had a doctor and rescue officer with them. Because Don and the other guy could not walk I waited with them till the rescue helicopter came. I have been hiking on the mountain for two years and it is the first time something like this has happened. We are lucky to be alive. I won’t forget that knife coming at me and cutting into my skin,” she said. Speaking from his hospital bed at the Victoria Hospital, Don Cormack said he was still traumatised after the attack. His memory of the events was also still a bit vague. Two arrests had been made following violent attacks. SANParks spokesperson Merle Collins said: “To this point Table Mountain National Park has appointed a visitor safety team whose role it is to keep crime to a minimum in the national park.” Ongoing surveillance, observation points to monitor the mountain, as well as an increase of patrols in the area is part of SANParks’s strategy to combat increased violent attacks on the mountain. “(This) has produced many successes since its inception. “In addition, the park also boasts a ranger corps which has as one of their roles law enforcement in the park. “These teams are supported by a dog unit consisting of 12 level four security-trained canines,” Collins said. She confirmed that SANParks had been alerted to the stabbing incidents over the weekend. “Management would like to caution the public not to take the law into their own hands and not to interfere in any official law enforcement duties. “Two arrests were made following incidents that took place this month. “The perpetrators were responsible for a mugging on Platteklip and Signal Hill and were positively identified as being linked to the crime incidents respectively.” To ensure the safety of hikers, Collins said: “Resources will be deployed to the mountain side above Kalk Bay where a criminal incident took place over the weekend.” Collins said that as part of their safety and security measures, they would be identifying possible escape routes to assist the SAPS in apprehending the perpetrators as there are numerous exit points. They would gather on-site evidence to assist with successful convictions. Further operational meetings would take place with various role-players. “Given the extent and remoteness of the park, it is a challenge to have a presence everywhere at all times. Our team is deeply concerned about any incidents and we request that hikers please save our emergency number,” Collins said. SANParks can be contacted on 0861106417 or 107 or 0214807700. Cape Argus