London - Jennifer Hudson says people often assume that her home belongs to her white driver, and that she works for him. 
The 36-year-old singer-and-actress has competed in 'American Idol', won an Oscar for her starring role in 'Dreamgirls', and is currently a coach on both the US and UK versions of 'The Voice' - but she still experiences racial prejudice on a regular basis. 
Jennifer told Cosmopolitan UK: "There have been several situations where I get on a plane and [the cabin crew] assumes that I'm [meant to be] in the back of the plane. That happens a lot. I'm like 'No, my seat is up there [in first class], thank you.'
"People also assume that my home belongs to my white driver, Charles. One time, I was having something moved into my house and they wanted to know where to put it. I said, 'There.' [The removal man] just stood there. 
"When Charles came in, he asked him, 'So where would you like these things?' Charles said, 'She said she wanted it right there. You're talking to the wrong person." 
Jennifer - who has eight-year-old son David Jr. with former fiance David Otunga - slammed the prejudice as "ignorant", and claims she also faces the same setbacks in other areas such as her gender. 
She continued: "Stuff like this happens in your own home! I defy all the odds being African American, living in a wealthy neighbourhood and being a working mom. It's too many foreign things in one person! It's so ignorant. Race is just one of them. I face them all."
The 'Spotlight' singer rose to fame after competing in 'American Idol' in 2004 and has worked on Broadway and appeared in a string of films including 'Sex And The City'.   
In her interview, Jennifer also spoke out on the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the prejudice women have experienced in Hollywood.
Like many stars, the actress and singer is proud of the women coming forward and sharing their experiences. 
She said: "I hate that these things have happened, but I'm glad that women are taking a stand for themselves. They should have the right to be able to do that. And no one's power should be able to take over someone else's. That's not cool."  Bang Showbiz