Durban - It appears that the vehicle thought to have been used in the alleged abduction of Siam Lee, was involved in a crash on the day that she went missing. It was found smashed up, in the garage of an Assagay property on Wednesday morning and hours later, police had a suspect in custody. Lee was allegedly abducted from a Durban North property on January 4 and a body, which a relative has since identified as hers, was found on a farm in New Hanover two days later. Police are waiting for DNA results to confirm the identification. Read: Breakthrough in Siam Lee murder case 'Intensive investigation' led to arrest of #SiamLee suspect In an interview with Blue Security Community TV, private investigator Brad Nathanson, of Brad Nathanson Investigations, on Thursday morning explained how he and his team had helped crack the case. They led police to the vehicle - a black Mercedes Benz Vito - and then swooped on the 29-year-old man thought to have been behind Lee’s abduction and subsequent murder.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “On information received, we took the SAPS to a house in Assagay, where we recovered the Vito - the Vito we believe Siam was abducted in,” Nathanson said, “The Vito was substantially damaged. It had been involved in a car accident - an accident that took place on the same day that Siam was abducted”. Nathanson said the vehicle had been standing in the garage since that day. Also read: 'Siam was a victim and we should not judge her' Mom the key to finding Siam’s killer: investigator “The suspect had gotten himself a hired car,” he said. Nathanson said police took the car to Pinetown for their Local Criminal Record Centre to inspect it. “And at 5.30pm (on Wednesday), my staff and I arrested a suspect - a 29-year-old man who we believe is responsible for the abduction and murder of Siam Lee,” he said. Nathanson called the arrest the result of “a massive effort by so many people”. “We want to thank everybody,” he said, “All the people that assisted, together with other private investigators and the SAPS,” he said. The Mercury