The event promises to be an explosion of colour and this year’s theme, “Style Ahead of the Field”, has made all things possible. Organisers said they were “ready to take the Sun Met to a high, providing world-class entertainment and premium hospitality”. Sun International spokesperson Rob Collins said they were thrilled to be staging the event for a second year following their “stellar” debut as the headline sponsor. “We’re looking forward to taking the reins on this prestigious event once again as we, together with our partners, plan to deliver another remarkable day out for all our attendees that will top our 2017 success,” said Collins. Apart from the races and glamour, the main attraction of the day will be Usain Bolt, who has been appointed as the “chief entertainment officer” and special guest for the event. The eight-time Olympic champion is expected to touch down on Friday evening. Recently crowned Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters will be among slew of celebrities along with current Miss SA Adé van Heerden. Other celebrities include former Miss SA Jo-Ann Strauss, official Sun Met influencers Lee Fraser and Melody Molale, Linda Mtoba and Thapelo Mokoena. Collins said there was a  top line-up of A-List entertainment featuring some of South Africa’s finest radio and club DJs and the award-winning band Mi Casa. The official after-party includes live performances by DJ Kent, DJ Zinhle, Euphonik and Mi Casa in the official Sun Met and GH Mumm after-party marquee. Judy Lain, Wesgro chief marketing officer for tourism, said: “The Met has an economic impact of at least R60million. Events such as these are therefore extremely important for the provincial economy, helping boost growth and create jobs.” Racegoers can buy general access tickets for R200. This includes access to all public areas, such as the grand stand with public bars and catering facilities, as well as access to the official after-party. Tickets can be bought via TicketPro and designated tote offices in Cape Town. For those wanting something more exclusive, there are packages on offer ranging from the picnic site to VIP packages starting from R2 350. The VIP packages include a shaded area, food and drink offerings and access to the official after-party.