Johannesburg - Volkswagen’s all-new and highly anticipated Polo will be launched in South Africa at the end of January and it promises to set new benchmarks in the compact hatch segment. But how much will it set you back? VWSA was kind enough to give us indicative pricing for the range, with the big disclaimer that these prices could still change between now and launch, when the exact prices will be released. Indicative pricing: VW Polo <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> These prices represent a slight increase over the current model, which costs at R229 600 in base Trendline form, rising to R255 900 for the Comfortline, R278 600 for the Highline and R379 900 in the case of the GTI. New 1-litre TSI engine The new Polo will be offered with two versions of VW’s latest 1-litre TSI three-cylinder turbopetrol engine, which replaces the 1.2 TSI unit, but despite being downsized it does pack a slightly bigger punch. Trendline and Comfortline models get a 70kW/175Nm version of this engine (up from 66kW and 160Nm), mated to either a five-speed manual or seven-speed DSG dual-clutch gearbox. The Highline is a little beefier, offering 85kW and 200Nm (up from 81kW/175Nm), and this derivative can be had with a six-speed manual gearbox or that aforementioned DSG. The GTI, which is expected to follow later, is powered by VW’s familiar 2-litre TSI engine, boasting outputs of 147kW and 320Nm. Larger, digitised cabin Built on VW’s MQB modular platform the new Polo not only raises its game in terms of refinement, but it’s also larger and better packaged that before, having grown a significant 81mm in length and 69mm in width. Boot volume rises from 280 litres to 351 litres, according to VW. A highly digitised cabin also offers the option of a digital instrument cluster for the first time, along with a range of new-generation glass-encased touchscreen infotainment systems measuring up to 20.3cm.  That said, the local features list is still under wraps, but for the record overseas customers get a generous array of new available gadgets, including Adaptive Cruise Control with Stop&Go, wireless smartphone charging and rear-traffic alert, to name a few. As with the outgoing model, the new Polo will be built at VWSA’s Uitenhage plant for both local consumption and export. Watch this space for full details around 25 January. IOL Motoring