In a field report submitted to Weekend Argus, the Commercial, Stevedore, Agricultural and Allied Workers Union (CSAAWU) alleges that farm workers in Ladismith and Calitzdorp are prevented from joining the union. CSAAWU claims its members spent the festive season “without any pay and security due to unmistakable union bashing tactics on the part of farmers”. “CSAAWU shop stewards have been particularly targeted for dismissal on farms,” the report said. Farm owner representatives have denied any wrongdoing, saying the “allegation of so-called union bashing is unfounded”. CSAAWU’s report details a host of worker allegations against farmers. David Spogter from Langhoogte Farm in Montagu, said “things were still fine” when he joined the union in 2016. “But then they started deducting from the wages, and we started talking out and objecting to this. We arranged meetings with the farmer, but he was never available,” said Spogter. “A few of the workers who were not part of the union, were talking among themselves and said that we (union members) were not going to get work, according to the farmer. He was badgering these workers and making them scared.” Spogter said in May last year the “farmer gave us no warning that we were to finish up”. “It was around 30 of us that were laid off like this. We know he is looking for people now, but he doesn’t want union people. He employed people recently, but not union people.” CSAAWU’s national organiser Karel Swarts said there  had been mass dismissals, collective punishment and other attempts to discourage farmworkers from joining the union. “Very often farmers arrange a meeting with workers, then tell them that union officials will be there, but they never inform us or tell us about the meeting. Then when we are not there, the workers think that we are deserting them, and they are angry with union. “Some workers resigned because of this, thinking the union was deserting them.” Retha Louw, general manager of the Sustainability Initiative of SA, which is the fruit industry’s ethical body, said they would look into the allegations. “We will manage this according to our complaints procedure and policy,” she said this week. Hannes Barnard from Aprolasa, an NPO representing farm owners, said CSAAWU presented “obvious mis-statements of facts”. “We have become accustomed to outbursts and accusations from particularly Mr Swart when he is confronted with adversity,” said Barnard. He said the union had “lodged disputes regarding the dismissal of employees”. “It is therefore not appropriate to respond in the media to the various allegations other than to state that the half-truths and untruths mentioned will be dealt with at the appropriate forum,” said Barnard. Bianca Capazorio, spokesperson for the Western Cape ministry of economic opportunities, which also deals with the agricultural sector, said it was “looking into the (CSAAWU) cases provided”. “We are aware that in some instances, the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration and department of labour have already been approached to intervene. “In some instances, we have already witnessed a decline in the number of seasonal workers being hired again for the following season, leading to potential labour-related tensions within the sector.” Farmworker job losses have also been attributed to persistent drought in the province. “We anticipate that this drought may lead to a significant number of job losses in the sector,” said Capazorio. “To alleviate the impact of the drought, we have provided nearly R112 million, 
with R40m of this coming from the national government, in support to emerging farmers and their employees to assist them in getting through this difficult time.”