“I like to play school-school with my friends. One day I want to be a real teacher.” - Andy, 7. “My dream is to be an astronaut in space!” - Hayden, 6. These are some of the answers I got from youngsters who started “big” school this year. Most will be 7 by the end of the year. “What advice would you give your younger self?” is a question everyone from media mogul Oprah Winfrey to Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has been asked and answered. “Relax, everything is going to be okay,” seems to be the most common response to this question. However, adults aren’t always relaxed and we certainly don’t have it all figured out. We could all learn from kids, who fall and fail, only to get right up again to dream and dare, all before the school bell signals the end of the day. What kind of life did 7-year-old you envision for yourself. Would your life excite your younger self? Would they be proud? It’s an easy “yes” if you’re hip hop artist YoungstaCPT. The 26-year-old, who calls the Mother City home, has wowed both local and international crowds with his lyrics, love and understanding of Cape Town culture and his general stage presence. He has a certain swagger about him. A swagger that has always been there, if the throwback picture he posted on social media of a much younger YoungstaCPT is anything to go by. In the photograph is a rapper in the making. The pre-teen is clad in a pair of silky, blue boxers and crowned with a white sweatband. There’s a CD player in the background, its remote control being used as a pretend microphone. “At age 6 I started imitating rappers, mainly the Men in Black song by Will Smith,” the Sleep is for the Rich hitmaker said in an interview. So too, South Africa’s “King of Couture” Jacques LaGrange started playing around with his craft as a child. I met the fashion designer and self proclaimed former “farm boy” ahead of this year’s Sun Met. He’s dressing me for the event. “Problem area,” he says flatly as he points to my protruding stomach. I almost regret devouring that decadent slice of chocolate cake before our meeting. We talk while he pins pieces of material together, not pricking me once. “My mother liked to dress up. I grew up telling her whether her outfit worked or not.” It’s the same mother who raised him with the motto: “You can do whatever you want to in life as long as you are happy and have fun.” That’s exactly what Jacques has been doing. “After 18 years of doing this professionally I still have fun every day. I get to do what I love every day,” he says. Yet he understands that not everyone has such clarity about their path. “Go travel if you’re unsure of what you want to do. Many parents are still fixed on the idea that their children should become doctors or lawyers. We are all born with different talents and it’s our responsibility to figure out what they are and use them.” Perhaps the secret isn’t to have it all figured out but to start. Today he is a designer to the stars but it all started with the blue and black dress a young boy made for his younger sister’s Barbie doll. At 7 some of us knew exactly who and what we want to be. However, for most of us this isn’t the case. Even if we did, and though all of us can dream big, not all of us can be Oprah, Bill Gates, YoungstaCTP and Jacques. This doesn’t mean that we don’t get to shine or that we don’t have talents that are of service. Sometime last year a car guard caught my attention. I didn’t ask but I’m sure this wasn’t his childhood dream: working outside after midnight in the pouring rain while pubs and clubs are filled with people drinking and jolling. Still, he does his job with such passion and purpose, breakdancing as he guides the cars into the parking bays along Long Street. Shine where you are. Serve where you are. Don’t like where you are? Perhaps it’s time to have a conversation with your younger self. 