Private investigators and police arrived at a house in Assagay, Hillcrest, where they arrested the 29-year-old man on Wednesday. Brad Nathanson, a private investigator working on the case, said it took less than 15 minutes for the team to arrest the man. Nathanson said the team arrived at the man’s Hillcrest home at 5.20pm and set up their stakeout. He arrived at 5.30pm. “On Tuesday, I received a tip-off from an informant about the car, matching the description of the vehicle that took Siam, parked in a garage at a house in Assagay, Hillcrest. I alerted police and we went to the address given to me. We waited for less than 15 minutes and we saw the man entering the property. He was driving a hired car. It was a blessing from God,” Nathanson said. He said when initial reports broke about Lee’s disappearance, and later her murder, he told his staff to ignore the posts on social media. “The problem was that there was a lot of muddy water and I told my staff we must not listen to the theories out there. People were just recklessly posting things on social media.” Nathanson said when his informant told him about the Vito parked in the garage, he recognised the address and alarm bells went off in his head. Gunpoint “I remembered a previous case I was working on at that home back in 2016. In this case, a young girl was also taken at gunpoint. She worked at a massage parlour,” he said. After the arrest, police recovered the Vito in the garage. Police have also recovered the green hat and sunglasses the man was believed to have worn the day Lee was taken. Nathanson said the car was severely damaged as it had been in a crash, allegedly just after Lee was abducted. The car was towed to Pinetown police station for examination. According to Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a 9mm firearm was also seized. Nathanson said when they went through the man’s cellphone, he was disturbed by the images  he found in the picture galleries. “In my 38 years, I have not seen this before.This man is a monster. Based on what was found at his house, I believe he is fixated on sex. I believe the evidence found by police will link him to Siam,” he said. The suspect is believed to be a bio-chemist. Lee, a 20-year-old brunette, was abducted from outside her workplace in Margaret Maytom Avenue in Durban North on January 4. News of the former Crawford North Coast pupil spread on social media. Last Thursday, a farmer travelling in the New Hanover area in the Midlands stumbled across a woman’s body lying on a burnt patch of grass. “Detectives are still awaiting the results of DNA tests to confirm if the woman found at New Hanover is Siam Lee. If so, the suspect will be charged with her murder,” Mbhele said. Daily News