Morrison will be part of the 5FM Legends concert, which will kick off at Montecasino’s Teatro in Johannesburg on January 22. Capetonians will be able to catch a glimpse of this jazz genius on January 26 when he performs at Kirstenbosch. “I’m super excited to be heading to South Africa for a few shows next year. It’ll be my first time playing there, and my first gigs in a little while. (I) can’t wait to play in Johannesburg and then with the mountains as the backdrop in Cape Town’s (Kirstenbosch) Botanical Garden,” said Morrison. He told Weekend Argus that when he broke out on to the music scene as a soulful singer-songwriter in 2006, he never predicted that he would become the template that allowed a wave of other musicians to enter the field. Sam Smith, Ed Sheeran, George Ezra and James Bay are all crowding the charts, following the same format - one guy with a great, soulful voice and a guitar. They’ve all cited him as an influence but does Morrison take some credit for paving the way? “I don’t really see it like that; I was just lucky to be one of the first,” he said. Pop gems such as You Give Me Something and Wonderful World, featuring his distinctive raspy voice, launched him to stardom, and he won the 2007 Brit Award for Best British Male Solo Artist when he was just 21. The year 2008’s Songs for You, Truths for Me brought with it a string of top-10 singles, including the catchy Broken Strings, with Nelly Furtado. His last album, 2011’s Awakening, shot straight to No 1, selling more than a million copies worldwide. Morrison said his South African tour coincided with the release of his new album in January, but did not disclose details of the album. “What I can say is that I want to make people cry their eyes out, and then make them laugh.” While he has not made a list of places to see in South Africa, Morrison said he hoped to take in as much of the country as possible, and he would bring his family when he returned. “I may just do some homework before I arrive, but I like to just go with the flow.” Tickets for the Cape Town concert are available from Webtickets.