This time last year, Cassper sold 68000 tickets for his Fill Up FNB Stadium concert, falling slightly short of “filling it up”. But still, he was rightfully lauded for his efforts and the courage to try to do what no local artist has ever done.     On Friday, the talented rapper released a kwaito album. Another bold move from an artist who’s built a career off doing things differently and pushing the boundaries. The 11-track album, called Sweet & Short, re-imagines some of the Kwaito classics of yesteryear. Of course, Cassper has typically fused hip hop and kwaito in his music.     So it isn’t much of a surprise that he’s delved fully into the genre that he grew up listening to. “The kwaito sound has been very influential in my music and for a very long time fans have asked for a full kwaito project,” explained Cassper. “I finally gave in and decided to keep it sweet and short, nice and simple.” Before its release yesterday, Cassper released three singles: "Gets Getsa", "Hase Mo States Mo" and, most recently, "Sponono Sam" ft. Shwi Nomtekhala. At Wednesday’s private listening session Cassper previewed a couple of the other songs on the album. There were plenty of familiar samples from days gone by, something which he said he did to pay homage to the genre and the icons who define it. A few weeks ago, Cassper announced he’d be partnering with Universal Music. The deal, which Cassper described as “tailor-made” for him and his requirements, will see his own label, Family Tree, partnering with the label. He announced on Twitter: “I would like to take this time to announce that my company, Family Tree Media has signed a partnership deal with Universal Africa. This deal was tailored to what I wanted. Lesson? Build it till it’s worth something and then you get to call the shots!” Recently, responding to a tweet from Phil Mphela in which the blogger expressed his disappointment at Cassper’s signing, Cassper explained: “This is another win for independent musicians. There’s a lot I’m going to teach through the partnership. Still own 100% of my label and 100% of my masters. “This is a new business model and if you know me as a businessman you know it’s the bag! Secure the bag!” Cassper said he felt he’d reached the ceiling as an independent artist and record label owner. Cassper continues to showcase his seemingly boundless ambition. I can’t wait to see what he does next.