Durban - Six South African students have been selected as part of the prestigious Rhodes Trust Scholarship. They have been selected among a group of 101 students from around the world. The Rhodes Trust said the group of 101 students was a record-breaking class. They are expected to start studying at Oxford in October 2019.“The Rhodes Class of 2019 will be the most geographically diverse in the Trust’s 116-year history. Scholars were selected from two new Rhodes constituencies, East Africa (Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, South Sudan and Burundi) and Saudi Arabia, as well as from a reinstated Singapore constituency. “For the first time, the Trust also offered two Rhodes Scholarships to candidates from anywhere in the world not otherwise eligible to apply, a significant step in its efforts to make the Rhodes a truly global scholarship. Applications for the new Global Scholarship were received from 32 countries,” the trust said. Dr Elizabeth Kiss, CEO and Warden of the Rhodes Trust, they were looking forward to meeting this new group of ‘remarkable young people’. “Their interests range widely, from genomics to poetry, human rights to nanoparticles. Many have overcome challenging life circumstances, from refugee status to foster care to navigating education as a first-generation college student. All of them demonstrate the power of the human spirit to strive and excel and give me great hope for the future.” Below, meet the six South Africans who will be headed for Oxford. LLM Private Law (Mineral Law)Shamila is currently reading for a Masters in Law at the University of Cape Town (UCT) as a Mandela Rhodes Scholar (2017). Her research focuses on improving the implementation of environmental laws in South Africa’s mining industry using cooperative governance structures. She holds a Bachelor of Laws degree (summa cum laude) from the University of KwaZulu Natal. At UCT, she works as a researcher for the Mineral Law in Africa Chair. She also monitors and writes reports of Parliamentary meetings in South Africa. At Oxford, she intends to explore how entrepreneurship in emerging markets could shape the economy and promote youth employment. Shamila is a volunteer ambassador for Rise Against Hunger Africa. Her interests range from politics and commerce to fashion and hiking. 6. Nkahiseng Ralepeli, University of the Free State LLB LawNkahiseng Ralepeli is currently completing his LL.B at the University of the Free State. With a passion for a clashing of ideas, Nkahiseng has been involved in non-governmental organisations such as Corruption Watch and Debate Afrika using debating to not only educate the youth in South Africa but engage various social ills that plague South Africa however he can. Additionally, Nkahiseng has represented his institution at various debating tournaments including the Pan-African Championships and the Worlds University Debate Championships. An Abe Bailey Bursary recipient, Nkahiseng has always been incredibly interested in the transformation of African political theory and the establishment of various structures in the development and maintenance of African ‘infant’ democracies post civil wars. He later hopes to pursue a career in South African politics. Daily News