The state and defence advocates this week concluded arguments in aggravation and mitigation of sentencing. Phillips was acquitted of the murder of his then-girlfriend, Sharisha Chauhan, but found guilty on two counts of rape on September 11. He and Chauhan, were among friends who attended a rave party at La Bac Estate in Paarl on New Year’s Eve 2013 when Chauhan became ill in the early hours of January 1. The deceased was taken to the couple’s tent and after the pair were alone for some time, Chauhan started having seizures. She was taken to Mediclinic Paarl where she died later that day. Phillips took the stand, not to tell the court what happened in the tent he shared with Chauhan, but to testify about the “broken man” he is now. “This has been a long ongoing debate between myself and counsel. I took their advice not to take the stand until now,” said Phillips. However, Judge Lee Bozalek denied the state the opportunity to question Phillips in depth about the events that led to Chauhan’s death, saying he was not giving testimony in chief but merely attesting to his own character. Last week, Phillips was assigned a new legal aid advocate after his previous advocate, Joey Moses, and attorney Craig Duncan filed an application to remove themselves from the case as their client was no longer able to pay. State prosecutor Esna Erasmus, questioned Phillips about why he had waited almost an hour before calling for help when it was clear Chauhan was in need of medical assistance. According to a statement by Phillips, had Chauhan reacted negatively to LSD and MDMA which he alleged they consumed at the rave. “I waited for the effects of the drugs to wear off. In hindsight now, I realise we should have sought medical attention,” said Phillips. He also told the court that he decided to take the stand to clear up “media reports” that he has not shown remorse for the rape of Chauhan. “You may have regrets, but you have very little remorse,” said Erasmus. The state is asking for a minimum of one life sentence to be handed down. If the state is successful, Phillips will only be eligible for parole in 25 years. Sentencing will take place on December 13. Weekend Argus