Terblanche is the father of twin boys born on November 24, 2013. Danté and Juandré were born three months prematurely and the labour law at the time allowed fathers only three days’ leave. Terblanche told Weekend Argus Danté spent 139 days in ICU and weighed only 890g at birth. Juandré at 980g, spent 79 days in ICU. The weaker of the twins, Danté, is autistic and had to have his skull rebuilt, teeth removed as they were brittle, and suffered brain damage. “I was lucky that my employer allowed me to work flexitime. Other parents, especially other dads, are not so fortunate,” said Terblanche, who is employed as a financial manager. Terblanche said he personally wrote letters to each member of Parliament to afford fathers more time off at birth or adoption. “According to Section 27 of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (1997), an employee is entitled to family responsibility leave when his or her child is born. A father is entitled to only three days family responsibility leave when his child is born.” If he chooses to take his three days paid leave to spend with his newborn child and support his wife/partner, he in effect cancels any further paid family responsibility leave for that leave cycle, said Terblanche in his petition to Parliament. On July 3, 2014, Terblanche started his campaign, when he submitted a petition to the National Council of Provinces for paternity leave for birth and adoption. “Dads need time to bond with their new babies. Even if your baby is adopted. Love is love,” he said. In November the National Assembly passed the Labour Laws Amendment Bill. “The Labour Laws Amendment Act is a progressive act that will strengthen families as it provides for parental leave, adoption leave and commissioning parental leave. The act is gender neutral and will contribute to a more equitable and harmonious society. “Everyone is quick to say that fathers are not involved enough with their children, but with only three days paid family responsibility leave at their disposal, they have a disadvantage from the start,” he said. According to Terblanche, the amendment is expected to be promulgated on January 1. Weekend Argus