South Africa has tallied more than 765 deaths for the festive season so far. Gauteng had the second-most deaths with 125, and Eastern Cape and Limpopo were joint third with 89 deaths each. Although the figures are high, they did not surprise people who have been advocating for change on the country’s roads. Howard Dembovsky, of Justice Project South Africa, said the only thing that changed with the figures was the year that they happened in, as they were always high. Dembovsky said this year’s festive season road death toll equalled the number of deaths for the entire year in Britain. He blamed law enforcement agencies for not strictly implementing the rules of the road and reaching their target to decrease the number of road deaths. What saddened him was that the Transport Department was a signatory to the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety Global Plan, which aims to cut down road fatalities by half. The high road death toll was therefore “tragic and catastrophic”, he said. Drivers were only behaving badly on the roads because the police were letting them get away with it, he added. However, it was not only the transport authorities who were to blame for the carnage, Dembovsky said. “People overrate their own skills, as if they are the only competent drivers on the road,” he said. He also pointed to drivers showing a lack of common sense. Richard Benson, of the Road Safety Action Campaign, called for speed limits to be lowered. He said he had previously warned the government that there would be carnage on the roads if no drastic changes were made. Benson urged the government to follow the lead of countries that had lowered their speed limits on national roads and freeways to 100km/h and to 30km/h on city roads, saying this would significantly decrease pedestrian deaths that account for more than 30% of road deaths. “There are nearly 12million vehicles on the road and only about 22000 traffic officers,” Benson said. The figure showed that more police officers were needed, the hiring of which would be cheaper than the cost of road crashes. Benson said the survivors of accidents were another overlooked aspect of road crashes. He said that in addition to the many deaths, people who survived accidents often had to live with injuries that would scar them for life. Mluleki Mntungwa, of the KZN Transport Department, said one of their strategies was to educate people to drive safely. They were running a campaign to educate drivers, with Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda leading the effort. He said most crashes were caused by human error and the bad attitude of drivers, who were often young. Daily News