The protest at the Natal Spa in Paulpietersburg turned violent, leading to some of the resort’s property being damaged. Tensions between the resort and the community have been simmering for some time, according to leaders, and attempts to calm them have had little success. Edumbe deputy mayor Doctor Ndlangamandla said he was concerned that the situation might get worse if it wasn’t contained quickly. “The community members gave the business seven days to respond and I fear that this situation might get worse,” he said. He said the municipality may call on the provincial government to intervene. Last Friday, community members in Ward 7 stormed the resort complaining about the lack of job opportunities for locals. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said 28 people had been arrested in connection with the violence. “A case was opened at Paulpietersburg police station after business premises were attacked by a group of people (last) Friday morning. “The 28 suspects were charged with public violence. They were taken to Paulpietersburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday.” Ward councillor Mphiliseni Zulu said the concerns raised by the community were legitimate, but the way in which they had been expressed was problematic. He said of the 28 people arrested, 27 had been released and one remained in custody. “The community complained that these businesses are operating here and yet there is no social investment coming from them. “They don’t provide jobs for locals; instead they are bringing ‘unskilled’ labourers from as far as Durban,” Zulu said. Attempts to reach the resort’s ­management were unsuccessful yesterday. In a statement posted on their Twitter page on Monday, chief executive of the Gooderson Leisure Group, Gavin Castleman, said the unrest had caused disruptions to staff and guests last week, but “all was now under control”. “Although there was damage to property, there were no injuries to guests staying at the resort.”     Media statement regarding the recent unrest at Gooderson Natal Spa pic.twitter.com/CTmEBivMRF He said the resort’s management, and security were working closely with the police to ensure that the calm that had been restored in the area would be maintained over the festive season. The Mercury