From making political statements to fashion statements, this year’s event saw the political elite and their partners upping the style stakes in all their finery. Bright colours, sleek silhouettes and African prints dominated the red carpet event, often recognised as the most glamorous on the political calendar. And the country’s top politicians and MPs, their partners and dignitaries certainly dressed to impress. While previous address red carpets have delivered some questionable fashion choices and couture disasters, no one seemed to put an expensively shod heel forward this time around. DA MP Phumzile van Damme, fresh from her resignation as party spokesperson, looked the belle of the ball in a Malcolm Kluk African-print dress. “I went for a Black Panther look,” she joked, in reference to the latest Marvel superhero movie which celebrates black excellence and African fashion. Premier Helen Zille turned heads in a stunning tulle and chiffon sleeveless ball gown by local designer Brandon van der Vyver, who accompanied her. “We chose burgundy because it goes beautifully with her skin tone and we chose this cut because the premier is a mature woman and we wanted her to look beautiful and sophisticated at the same time,” the designer said. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa and his wife, Philisiwe, made a glamorous pair. Of her gorgeous red silk dress, Philisiwe said: “Oh this old thing. It’s an old Oscar de la Renta dress I had in my cupboard. And I decided to wear red because we’ve just come off Valentine’s Day.” Another glamorous lady in red was the ever-stylish Noma Gigaba. The finance minister’s wife turned heads in an off-the-shoulder fitted gown by designer Gert-Johan Coetzee. Thembeka Ngcobo, the beautiful young wife of Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries Bheki Cele, looked sensational in an olive off-the-shoulder ball gown. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula’s wife Nozuko exuded understated elegance in a striking green gown. “I found this in the back of my wardrobe,” Mrs Mbaks said. Mandla Mandela and his beautiful wife Rabia looked Afro-chic in matching African-inspired mustard outfits. “She makes me look good,” Mandela said of his stunning partner. Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane also opted for red, in a spectacular ball gown by young designer Bonolo Mashilowhich won her many compliments. “I do feel like a princess in this,” she gushed. Designer David Tlale lauded the fashion choices of some of the country’s political leaders. “Sona has become one of the country’s trendsetting events, and an important event for fashion. “It’s wonderful to see politicians supporting local brands. “Fashion is a journey we take them on, and my advice to them for next year is to continue to appreciate local design talent because we know local body structures.” 