Cape Town - The DA no longer has use for Mayor Patricia de Lille in the province as it has other leaders capable of representing the coloured constituents. This is according to political analyst Professor Bheki Mngomezulu on statements by Mitchells Plain community leader Rozario Brown, who feels the DA used De Lille to acquire coloured voters in the province. Brown said: “The DA  saw fit to use Patricia’s face on its posters in not one but two election campaigns. By doing so, the DA convinced the overwhelming majority of voters in the last municipal elections in Cape Town, approximately 66%  of all voters, that Patricia de Lille was the best candidate with the best values and the best principles to lead this city. “I find it absolutely distasteful how the party - especially some males - has been going after this coloured woman.” Mngomezulu said the matter had always been a race issue. “When the DA  accepted her, it was to absorb the Independent  Democrats (ID) into the DA and, in return, she was given the mayoral position. Now that her job is done, she is dispensable.” Political analyst Daniel Silke said that if the DA used De Lille, it was equivalent to her using the party to elevate herself to the position of mayor and providing the ID a lifeline. “The DA’s support in the coloured community runs deeper than the persona of De Lille. While she was popular in segments of the coloured community, the DA didn’t necessarily solidify votes in the province because of her,” said Silke. De Lille faced criminal charges. She survived a motion of no confidence when 109 councillors voted in favour, despite the party having 154 of the 231 council seats. Votes against stood at 110. Senior political science lecturer at Stellenbosch University Dr Collette Schulz Herzenberg said: “They (the DA) could lose support if they remove her with no good reason. If she is targeted for unclear reasons, it might affect the electorate. The overall average vote won’t be affected.” DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela rubbished the race allegations. “It’s a fallacy that coloured leaders attract coloured voters in the DA. Patricia joined a party with a strong brand built on good governance. No one is bigger than this party, and we cannot not act against her because we fear losing the electoral race.” De Lille said she had received support “from some brave DA councillors and multi-party representatives in council, as well as religious leaders”. “It means a lot to me to know that people support me and that they are not swayed by the concerted efforts over many months to attack my integrity and reputation as a corruption fighter in our country.”  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus