In the wake of Blac Chyna's sex tape being leaked, Marchelle Abrahams takes a look at online clapbacks and other celebs that cashed in on their "indiscretions". Has Blac Chyna learnt nothing from previously “leaked” celebrity sex tapes? Instead of calling the police, the former Rob & Chyna star should be finding ways of cashing in. The leaked footage allegedly shows the reality star performing oral sex on a mystery man in a 1 minute, 23 seconds long clip. The video was posted on an anonymous Twitter account. According to Bang Showbiz, the man’s face is never shown but his voice can be heard and the clip seems to have been filmed by him. Now it appears the mystery man is Chyna's ex, Mechie, TMZ reported. After the sex tape surfaced, Chyna was slated by online users for her "performance" and called her efforts uninspiring and boring. Sex expert, The Head Doctor, rated their performance in an online posting - and let's just say - none of them got top marks.   Here’s a look at celebs that turned their sex tapes into cash cows.   Paris Hilton Famously called 1 Night In Paris, the 2001 video shows Hilton having sex with then-boyfriend Rick Salomon, who strategically released it shorty before her reality TV series The Simple Life made its debut. During a 2006 GQ interview, Hilton said she “never received a dime” for the video with most of the sales going to Salomon. It managed to gross over $50-million in domestic sales and won multiple AVN awards, including: “Best Selling Title Of The Year”.   Farrah Abraham Teen Mom star Farrah Abraham swears the tape was filmed to "privately celebrate her awesome body forever." In 2013 she teamed up with porn star James Deen, who admitted he was paid to film it. The tape was later sold to Vivid Entertainment with Abraham receiving an advance of $1.5-million and 30 percent of residuals. To date, she has earned about $2.45-million from her sex tape.  Pamela Anderson and Tommy Lee The former Baywatch star and her ex Tommy Lee can be credited with starting the sex tape trend. In 1995 the couple made a tape while on honeymoon. To their shock it ended up in the hands of adult entertainment company, Internet Entertainment Group. They successfully sued the company for $740 000. But Internet Entertainment Group may have the last laugh - apparently they made over $100-million from the Pamela Anderson and Tommy Lee sex tape.  Kim Kardashian and Ray J It was the 2007 sex tape, featuring Kardashian and ex-boyfriend Ray J, that catapulted the reality star into the celebrity stratosphere. When the footage was leaked, instead of playing the victim, Kardashian made a calculated move that paid off. She and Ray J signed an agreement with Vivid Entertainment for $5-million upfront, plus monthly royalties. Besides hitting pay dirt, Kim K Superstar also dethroned Pamela Anderson and Tommy Lee's sex tape as the highest grossing of all time.