Here are a selection of headlines that People.com has posted over the past few days: - Pregnant Kylie Jenner Wants an 'Easy Birth', Says Source: She's 'Open to Pain Medicine' - Pregnant Kylie Jenner 'Hasn't Hired a Nanny': She's 'Worried About New People Around the Baby' - Pregnant Kylie Jenner Has a Baby Name Picked Out for Her Daughter Pregnant Kylie Jenner. Pregnant Kylie Jenner. Pregnant Kylie Jenner. And yet - Kylie Jenner, 20, has not actually confirmed she's pregnant. For some celebrities, this would not be a big deal - some stars get pregnant and don't say a word, even as "sources" and "insiders" dish to the tabloids, as illustrated above. But for someone in the Kardashian-Jenner family, this is especially confusing. After all, these family members have become international superstars because they share nearly every detail of their lives, even the painful or uncomfortable moments. As a result, people have become inexplicably fascinated by all of them (Kris Jenner, Caitlyn Jenner, Kim Kardashian West, Kourtney Kardashian, Khloe Kardashian and Rob Kardashian), which has fueled their multimillion dollar franchise of reality shows and sponsorships. So the decision to keep Kylie's apparent pregnancy under wraps is very off-brand for the family. This month, speculation will likely hit even more of a fever pitch, as February is the oft-reported due date for her baby, reportedly a girl. The non-confirmation of the news - which was reported by the tabloids in September and described as a "happy" surprise for Kylie and her boyfriend, rapper Travis Scott - has sent some fans into a spiral. On Christmas Day, fans melted down when Kylie didn't appear on the family's annual Christmas card. Starting Dec. 1, Kim released a new part of the photo every day, and many expected Kylie's announcement to be included in the final photo shoot. No dice. Meanwhile, people keep searching for information. TMZ posted blurry footage of Kylie's first public appearance since the fall, although she's wearing baggy clothes. Kylie recently posed for a magazine shoot, but is strategically holding a baby lamb in front of her. Meanwhile, some think the announcement will be part of an episode of "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," which wraps its current season in a few weeks: The website HelloGiggles reported that Wikipedia briefly listed the season finale title as "We're Expecting!" (The title on the Wikipedia page now is currently unlisted.) Should Kylie's baby arrive this month, it will join new cousin Chicago West, Kim and Kanye West's daughter who was born via surrogate last month. Khloe and her boyfriend, NBA player Tristan Thompson, are also expecting a baby in March. Although according to the tabloids, you might not see Kylie's baby's debut for quite some time. "She very much enjoys being out of the spotlight and can't wait to spend quiet time with the baby," a "source" told People, adding that Kylie doesn't plan to sell any photos of her child. "She doesn't seem in any rush to get back to a more public life." Washington Post