Durban - Members of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) swooped on the Durban and Johannesburg homes of nine members of an a syndicate  who have allegedly defrauded the tax man of more than R90 million - seizing an assortment of luxury items including a Lamborghini, gold bars, Euros and high calibre guns. Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, spokesperson for the Hawks said the suspects, eight men and a woman between the ages of 35 an 70 years were arrested during search and seizure operation conducted simultaneously at twelve premises - including businesses - at dawn on Wednesday. He said the operation was planned with the assistance of the Hawks’ Cyber Crime, Commercial Crime and the South African Police Service (SAPS) Tactical Response Units, following an investigation by SARS criminal investigators. "The SARS investigation revealed that the syndicate, which included a bookkeeper in Durban and Benoni respectively, allegedly claimed R99 million fraudulent refunds through 15 registered, but fictitious VAT vendors. False VAT vendor details, with fraudulent supporting documents, were used to register the vendors," Mulaudzi said. "SARS had paid out approximately R30,6 million before the scam was uncovered and further payments stopped. The proceeds of the scam were deposited in bank accounts from where the money was allegedly laundered through at least 35 so-called suppliers.  One AK47, an Uzzi and several handguns, approximately €2 300, R250 000 in cash and several gold bars as well as Kruger Rands worth millions of rand and bags full of possibly incriminating documents were confiscated during during the operation," he said. Among the documents detained, were identity documents and bank cards of the people who had been registered as VAT vendors. Vehicles parked in front of the posh homes in a Wierda Park estate where operations were conducted, included a Maserati and a Mercedes Benz Gelandewagen. Members of the SARS investigating team were allocated to support the Hawks in the search operation and will assist in identifying relevant SARS documentation as evidence, Mulaudzi said. The suspects were expected to appear in the Commercial Crime Courts in Durban and Pretoria on Thursday. Daily News