A balanced meal includes nutrients from carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, minerals and water. A good source of protein is chicken or fish, carbohydrates, rice or pasta and vegetables, carrots and pumpkin. Eat lots of fruit and vegetables (if they are not your favourite, you haven’t tried enough of them to find the yummy ones). A balanced meal keeps young cyclists healthy and energetic. “This is especially important if you are training for the Junior event - you need energy to ride and to make sure you don’t tire quickly. “The best way to do that is with fruit and veg,” said a spokesperson for the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior. For the event you will need extra energy to cycle around the track at the Cape Town Stadium. She said, “You won’t need to eat quite as much as mum and dad do for their big race, but you can still have a good portion of pasta or rice with dinner the week before event. “An extra piece of fruit such as bananas are great. Bananas are especially good for you if it is going to be a hot day. Remember to drink lots of water too. Get mom or dad to stock up on fruit-based energy bars, fruit, as well as dried fruit like mango and apples (but not the sugar-coated ones).” On the day of the Junior Tour eat a healthy breakfast, such as a bowl of oats and fruit instead of sugary cereals. After the ride Spur will be at the event selling burgers to celebrate everyone’s triumph. Meals will be halaal. The event takes place at the Cape Town Stadium on Sunday, March 4. There are three routes for six different age groups: The 1.3km route is for children under six and they must be accompanied by a parent on foot. Older kids between the ages of six and 12 can buzz around the 4km or 7km routes (parents may accompany their children on a bike). For the 4km and 7km routes, riders must remember the most important rule: no helmet, no ride. Dress up as a pedalling princess or favourite character, a super hero or super star. *  Online entries for the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior are still open and close on Monday. Number collection will take place from March 1 until 3 at the Canal Walk Shopping Centre, Centre Court from 9am unto 9pm. See https://www.capetowncycletour.com/lifecycle-week/junior/ to enter and for more information. WIN! WIN! WIN! Stand a chance to win a bike valued at R2799. For more information visit the Jellybean Journal stand at the Cape Town Cycle Tour Junior event on Sunday, March 4. Look out for our mascots Jelly and Bean on the day! (T's and C's apply.)