The city’s media office said in a statement yesterday the “current water crisis is negatively impacting on the functioning of the various sports codes and we are committed to working with them to ensure that the impact is minimised, whilst still taking the necessary steps to preserve the city’s remaining water resources”. The city’s implementation of Level 6B water restrictions means the “outdoor usage of boreholes is strongly discouraged”. “Usage of groundwater for irrigation purposes is limited to a maximum of one hour only on Tuesdays and Saturdays before 9am or after 6pm,” said the city. “This restriction is necessary in order to ensure that the existing aquifer is not depleted, as this water will be required to flush the city’s sewer network in the event of a Day Zero scenario.” The city said its “29 artificial surfaces will be used to accommodate as many of the major fixtures as possible”. A Broadway variety show coming to Cape Town this month has cut out its water tank torture act due to the city’s drought. The Illusionists, featuring top magical acts, will not feature its escapologist, Krendl, “owing to the critical water crisis”. City officials have introduced additional criteria as part of events and permits applications, requesting companies to list their alternative water sources. JP Smith, the city’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, said the city wanted event organisers to “minimise their use of the city’s potable water”. Smith said there were a number of event organisers who had alternative water sources. This included the Two Oceans Marathon race, which has sourced water from a natural spring and the Cape Town Cycle Tour, which will use water “brought in from outside the province for drinking and ice on the route”. Coca-Cola Peninsula Beverages said this week it planned to provide millions of litres of water to locals and use “alternate water sources to supplement the use of municipal water”. Water would be provided in 2 litre bottles at emergency sites as determined by the local government, said the beverage manufacturer this week. The company said it has already “implemented a discount structure with its retail customers on the BonAqua 1.5 litre water in order to provide this product to consumers at affordable prices”. It has also “invested in a number of initiatives in order to reduce the reliance on municipal water".