Cape Town - Malusi Gigaba has been moved back to Home Affairs, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced in a media briefing at the Union Buildings on Monday night. Ramaphosa announced Nhlanhla Nene will be taking over the post as the new Finance Minister. The changes to Ramaphosa's national executive were announced on Monday evening following the conclusion of an ANC NEC meeting at the weekend. David Mabuza has been names as Ramaphosa's deputy president. Other changes include: Police Minister: Bheki Cele Communications Minister: Nomvula Mokonyane Energy Minister: Jeff Radebe Higher Education and Training: Naledi Pandor Human Settlements: Nomaindia Mfeketo International Relations and Cooperation: Lindiwe Sisulu Mineral Resources: Gwede Mantashe Public Enterprises: Pravin Gordhan Public Service and Administration: Ayanda Dlodlo Public Works: Thulas Nxesi Rural Development and Land Reform: Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Science and Technology: Nkhensani Kubayi-Ngubane Social Development: Susan Shabangu Sport and Recreation: Tokozile Xasa State Security: Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba The Presidency: Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation: Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma The Presidency: Women: Bathabile Dlamini Tourism: Derek Hanekom Transport: Dr Blade Nzimande Water and Sanitation: Gugile Nkwinti New Deputy Ministers: Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries: Sfiso Buthelezi Communications: Pinky Kekana Finance: Mondli Gungubele Public Service and Administration: Dr Chana Pilane-Majeke Small Business Development: Cassel Mathale Ramaphosa said pending the completion of their swearing-in as MPs he would further appoint Mabuza as the deputy president, Zweli Mkhize as Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nene as Minister of Finance and Reginah Mhaule as Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation. The new Ministers and Deputy Ministers will be sworn in in Cape Town on Tuesday. Ramaphosa has been under pressure to appoint a deputy president and to make changes to the Cabinet he inherited from former president Jacob Zuma. Opposition parties and civil society have been expressing their unhappiness with a number of ministers that they believe should sacked.  Some of them include they wanted the president to replace are Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Gigaba, Mokonyane and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini.  Some of these ministers have been linked to allegations of state capture, while others like Dlamini have been singled out by the opposition for incompetence. On Tuesday, Ramaphosa responded to calls from opposition benches that he fire members of the Cabinet, saying if there is a Cabinet reshuffle, it won't be done at the behest of the opposition. On February 15, Ramaphosa was elected and sworn in as South Africa's new president by the National Assembly, a day after Zuma was forced to resign by the ruling party. Ramaphosa, 65, was the sole candidate put forward by the National Assembly and takes up the top post almost two decades after he was favoured by Nelson Mandela as his successor, only to be pushed aside by the party in favour of Thabo Mbeki. In a short acceptance speech in Parliament, Ramaphosa said he faced a humbling task and would try his best to serve all South Africans. He promised to tackle corruption and a massive rent-seeking scandal that has lost state-owned companies billions and embroiled Zuma, his son Duduzane and several Cabinet ministers. IOL and ANA Also read: #CabinetReshuffle: Fikile Mbalula says he is out