Blac Chyna is calling in police after a sex tape she features in was leaked online. The 'Rob & Chyna' star - who has children King Cairo, five, with former partner Tyga, and Dream, 14 months, with ex-fiance Rob Kardashian - is shown performing oral sex on a mystery man in a 1 minute, 23 seconds long clip which was posted early on Monday, February 19, morning on an anonymous twitter account. The guy's face is never shown but his voice can be heard and the clip seems to have been filmed by him. Chyna's attorney, Walter Mosley, told TMZ they were contacting police to investigate the video, admitting "it's a criminal matter". And the lawyer also took to Instagram to slam the prevalence of sex tape leaks and the surrounding culture. He wrote: "We have to change this culture of abuse and assault against women. Today's post saddens me deeply as it is an attack not only against my client but my friend. A post shared by Walter Mosley (@waltermosley) on Feb 19, 2018 at 11:54am PST "Why do we think it's acceptable to sell, or publish, or seek revenge, or blackmail women in this way and without their consent? It's not." He also urged men to "do better" and insisted women shouldn't be blamed for other people's actions. He continued: "I'm tired of telling my clients to not make videos because the men will put them out later. It's like I'm telling them not to wear short skirts because you're going to entice a man to rape you. "And like most rapes, these betrayals often come from those most close to us. So today I'm saying, men we need to do better. We need to tell each other to do better. We need to stop sharing these videos with each other in the club, at the barbershop or (and especially) online." He slammed the leak as a "morally corrupt action" which is criminal in California. He added: "Maybe it is time to set an example." And another lawyer, Lisa Bloom - who represented Chyna in her legal battle against Rob last year - also used social media to slam the use of "revenge porn". She tweeted: "Revenge porn -- posting explicit images without the consent of everyone in those images -- is a crime, a civil wrong, and a form of domestic abuse. "It's also a way to try to slut shame women for being sexual. Girls have killed themselves over revenge porn. It's not a joke." And in response to a follower who dismissed the outcry because Chyna "knew" she was being recorded, the lawyer added: "Whether a woman knows she's being recorded is not the issue. Whether she consented to posting is. Our bodies, our choice, each and every time." Bang Showbiz