Viceroy first came to the fore following its report on Steinhoff International. A new report by the research team sparked panic earlier this week when it declared that Capitec was nothing but a loan shark. Among other things, the report alleges that the bank approves loans to defaulting customers in order to repay existing loans. Capitec has denied the allegations and was backed by the Reserve Bank and National Treasury, which assured clients that the bank was solvent and co-operating. The National Treasury has asked the Financial Services Board (FSB) to consider launching an investigation into Viceroy itself. Questions were raised around Viceroy’s motives following talks that it belonged to a hedge fund which stood to profit from a drop in share price. After the release of the report, Capitec’s shares fell by almost 25%. Headed by a former British social worker Fraser Perring and two Australians, Viceroy has been mum about its investors. “Until two weeks ago Viceroy operated anonymously and opaquely, and the reckless way in which it has released its report is clear proof that it is not acting in the public interest nor in the interest of financial stability in South Africa,” said the Treasury. “Whilst Treasury expects prudential and market conduct regulators in SA to consider all relevant reports in the public domain and to act where any risks or transgressions in the law are identified, Treasury is of the view that the Viceroy report provides no basis to put any bank under curatorship. “National Treasury has requested that the FSB, as the market regulator, working with the JSE, urgently considers whether it should initiate a market abuse investigation into the conduct of Viceroy, and to ensure that it is regulated appropriately. “The FSB is requested to also alert relevant overseas regulators, like the Securities and Exchanges Commission in the US and the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK, to consider whether Viceroy is regulated appropriately, and to consider whether it has transgressed any of their market conduct and market abuse laws that aim to protect investors.” In response to the Treasury’s calls for investigation, Viceroy tweeted: “We welcome any lawful investigations into impropriety in our report, which is publicly sourced. In the US, Viceroy have worked and continue to work with regulators on numerous matters where we have identified corporate impropriety. We welcome the opportunity to similarly assist the FSB.” Sygnia Group chief executive Magda Wierzycka said Viceroy’s actions amounted to the sharing of fake news in order to profit from share price movement. “Viceroy is a three-man team of self-proclaimed researchers but they actually work for a hedge fund in the US which makes money out of doing exactly what they did with Steinhoff. They put out a report of this nature on a company they believe is involved in some fraudulent activity, their share price drops and they make their money out of the drop in the share price,” she said. “For a variety of reasons they struck gold with Steinhoff, and riding on that reputation and on the fact that it brought them into the public domain, they published a very flimsy report on Capitec, panicked investors, causing the share price to drop. The report itself is very flimsy and a lot of parties stepped up to immediately dispute it. “I don’t believe there is much truth to their allegations because all of these banks involved in micro-loan activities, which we know are small, unsecured loans, are to some extent exposed to bad debt but Capitec is very well capitalised, it is managing its bad debt quite well, so this report is possibly designed to capitalise on the fact that people take them seriously after Steinhoff and so they had a window of opportunity to strike again before people forgot their names.” She said more needed to be done to regulate the publishing of in-house reports which could have dire consequences on markets. “People do reports and they are entitled to do so and make whatever investment decisions they take on the basis of that report. What they are not allowed to do is intentionally cause a stampede on a share price and profit from it.”