[UPDATED] Johannesburg - The ANC has recalled President Jacob Zuma, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule announced on Tuesday. Magshule was briefing the media on the outcomes of Monday's special ANC NEC meeting at ANC headquarters Luthuli House in Johannesburg. The NEC believes that this is an urgent matter and should be treated with urgency, said Magashule. Read: SONA to be delivered by Ramaphosa - Magashule ANC calls for special caucus meeting over #Zuma He said that Zuma had requested a notice of three months but officials had noted the anxiety in the country. "Sensitive of the need to handle this matter with dignity, the NEC once again sent a delegation to brief President Jacob Zuma about the need to shorten the time-frames so that this matter is speedily resolved. The NEC received feedback from the delegation that the President of the Republic did not accede to a shorter time frame." The announcement comes after a marathon special ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Irene outside Pretoria that lasted into the early hours of Tuesday morning. When ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa went to see Zuma on Monday night, the president reportedly said: "Do what you want to do." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ramaphosa has been in ongoing discussions with Zuma to negotiate an exit plan while South Africans waited with bated breath. Last week the ANC Top 6 and the NWC both held meetings to discuss Zuma's fate. Also read: EFF extends deadline for Mbete to decide on no confidence vote Last week also saw the unprecedented cancellation of the State of the Nation Address that was scheduled for Thursday. Speaker Baleka Mbete on Tuesday announced that SONA 2018 would be postponed on request from opposition parties who have threatened to disrupt the proceedings. On Monday opposition parties called for the dissolution of Parliament and fresh elections to be held to elect a new president. IOL and African News Agency/ANA