Durban -The busiest route to the Durban Harbour container terminals has been blocked off by angry protestors on Wednesday morning. Bayhead and South Coast Roads intersections are in total chaos claimed motorists travelling through the busy intersection that links to the Durban Port, Clairwood and the Bluff. The area is most frequented by hundreds of trucks daily. "People are picking up curbstones and rocks and throwing at trucks"read a message on WhatsApp. A video circulating shows a group of people picking up stones from the curb and stoning cars at the intersection. A letter posted on social media sites said there was an anticipated strike action by non-recognised union members between Wednesday and Friday. The letter was signed by Siyabulela Mhlaluka, of Transnet Port Terminals.  The authenticity of the letter is still being verified by the Daily News. The letter was addressed to valued customers and stakeholders. It read: Transnet has been given notice by the Revolutionary Transport Union of South Africa (RETUSA) of the intention to embark on strike action nationally. RETUSA is a non-recognised union at Transnet. We anticipate that this strike action may impact our operating divisions. Transnet Port Terminals(TPT) anticipates the main strike impact to be in the Durban Container Terminals and Bayhead precinct. On Wednesday, the activity will be in the form of a procession from Ambrose Park in Shrewsbury Avenue along Bayhead Road up to the intersection of Bayhead Road and Langeberg Road between 9 am and 13h30. The TPT has set up 24-hour command centres in the affected terminals to monitor the situation closely and ensure business continuity. Transnet will continue to keep you informed of contingencies in place to ensure smooth operations. It is also not proven if the people recorded throwing stones are from Retusa. The Retusa website called on Transnet, Stevedoring and aligned workers to support the indefinite strike to demonstrate the dissatisfaction with Transnet's response to their demands. "Transnet continues to treat workers rights with total disregard and having given ample time for dialogue and to meet our demands to them, we have been left no other choice than to exercise our might and right to demonstrate our grievance by downing tools." a website statement read. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, a KZN Police spokesperson, said there is a legal protest currently taking place near uMbilo. "A group of 300 people blockaded the road demanding permanent employment and salary increase. The police are at the scene to monitor the situation," Zwane said. Daily News