These include issues of human trafficking, drugs, the possession of illegal firearms and abalone poaching, among others. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the unit was prioritising serious crimes affecting the province. Human trafficking remained of great concern to the Hawks, Mulaudzi said. “The Western Cape is seen as a tourist destination for many, so it is often used to lure people in. The victims are lured with job promises. After this they are forced into a life of drugs and sexual slavery.” In January, a Bellville man was arrested for forcing a 37-year-old woman into drugs and prostitution. The victim, from Johannesburg, was allegedly recruited under false pretences. On arrival in Cape Town, she was picked up by the suspect and allegedly kept against her will in a residence in Bellville. The matter was reported to the Hawks for investigation after the victim approached a law enforcement officer and asked for assistance. In June, Thandy Godson Oforbuike, 41, and Rozelda Ezeka, 32, were arrested in the Strand area during a Hawks-led operation. They were charged with human trafficking, running a brothel, prostitution and drug possession. The pair are alleged to have kept a 28-year-old woman against her will. Mulaudzi said drug abuse remained a factor in many crimes. “There is a lot of gangsterism in the province and this often contributes to drugs in communities. It also leads to the use of  illegal firearms. We are trying to push back in fighting these crimes.” Last month, 11 bags of  mandrax tablets to the value of R4.7million were found in an abandoned car in Mitchells Plain. This came after the unit received a tip-off about a house where drugs were being kept. “Preliminary investigations has revealed that the residence may have been used as a conduit to distribute drugs in the area,” Mulaudzi added. The unit said that a crackdown on illegal firearms was another priority, as these were being used in cop killings and in cases of intimidation and robberies. “Police members who have been involved in stealing firearms that were supposed to be destroyed are also being brought to book. A constable was recently arrested for theft and corruption from the Bellville police station,” said Mulaudzi. Of concern to the Hawks was the theft and poaching of endangered species such as abalone. “It is an endangered species and we are finding that they have a rife syndicate going on. There are divers, storage keepers, production labs (to dry out the abalone) and transporters,” said Mulaudzi. He added that most of the stolen abalone is usually prepared for shipment to China. Dry abalone is worth more than wet abalone. “The guys would usually sell the wet stock for a cheaper price before it is processed,” Mulaudzi said. Nine marine inspectors from the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF), along with nine members of alleged abalone syndicates, appeared in the Cape Town Regional Court on charges of racketeering, corruption and defeating ends of justice. “DAFF officials allegedly colluded with poachers by selling back the seized abalone and escorting illegal abalone shipments,” said Mulaudzi.