Kaizer Chiefs unveiled a new coach in Giovanni Solinas last Friday, and today, they unveiled their new kit for the 2018/19 season! It’s been a heady few days for the Amakhosi as Solinas was announced as the replacement for Steve Komphela. Then they won the Maize Cup on Saturday at the James Motlatsi Stadium in Orkney by beating Buya Msuthu and Free State Stars. And now Chiefs will play in their new kit on Saturday when they take on Mamelodi Sundowns in the Shell Helix Ultra Cup at the FNB Stadium. The gold jersey has bold diagonal black stripes across the front, which the club says is “representing traditional spears rising together to create a sense of motion and unity on the field”. The away kit is a bold purple, which is “paying homage to African royalty – strong and unbreakable, like the new team”, with black shorts and purple socks. The new jerseys feature Nike’s DRI-FIT technology, which assists with ventilation, while Nike’s ground-breaking polyester is a lightweight fabric. The range of Chiefs kit also includes a training jersey and tracksuit, as well as a female jersey. “Our long-standing partnership with Nike has produced many distinctive kit designs that have become part of our history, and this year is no different,” Chiefs marketing director Jessica Motaung said. “With the world celebrating ‘Madiba’ this month in the centenary year of Tata’s birth, we are sure that the former statesman would have been proud of the jersey as he’s always loved our jerseys, including the one he wore in 2002. “Just as it is with every jersey, the stylish, fashionable design is augmented by advancements in the fabric technology to give the garment a more comfortable feel and enable players to perform better on the pitch. “We are once again thankful to Nike for another iconic home and away jersey. “It is important to recognise our ladies and the role they play in supporting the team, and having a special design for them is important to us.” The new kit will be available from the nine Kaizer Chiefs retail stores, as well as online at kcdigistore.com and at Nike.com on Monday July 16, and major retailers from Monday July 23.  IOL Sport