Cape Town - A combined Western Cape police, Law Enforcement and the Department of Home Affairs operation resulted in several arrests and the seizure of drugs and firearms. Five people were arrested in Grassy Park as part of Operation Fiela. "Police from the Mitchell’s Plain cluster, together with other Law Enforcement agencies and members of the Department of Home Affairs, participated in efforts to prevent crime during operation Fiela in the Grassy Park area," police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said. "The criminals were greeted with a heavy police presence and the operation targeted crime hotspots, suspected drug selling places and stop and search operations were conducted in Lotus River, Parkwood, New Horizon and Ottery, as well as in the broader Grassy Park area. "Three suspects, a man and two women aged between 43 and 51 years, were arrested on drug related charges after a search warrant was executed at a premises in Ibis Road, Parkwood. A total of 200 mandrax tablets were found hidden in the kitchen under a table. The estimated street value of drugs  is R8 000. "A 29-year-old female was also arrested after she was found to be in possession of half a mandrax tablet during the execution of a search warrant in Blackbird Avenue, Parkwood.      "In addition, a 25-year-old man was arrested in Keith Road, Ottery for possession of dagga after information was received about a suspect selling dagga from the premises. During the search  a total of 91 bankies, 11 packets of dagga and 56 glass tubes was found, with an estimated value of R7 000," Rwexana said. "An undisclosed amount of cash was also confiscated. "Two traffic roadblocks were held in the area where several cars were stopped, and fines to the value R36 900 were issued. Two compliance inspections were also done at second hand dealers. "Home Affairs personnel interviewed 12 foreigners after their businesses were visited, and officials will be looking into the authenticity of their paperwork. "All suspects who were arrested are due to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court, once charged," she said. @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times