Weekend Argus tagged along with staff from the Radisson Hotel group as they set off across the city to hand out care packs to the homeless in the city centre, the Company’s Garden and the children at the SOS village. Under the theme “11 hotels, 1 action, 4 cities and 1 voice” the group’s staff spread out across Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Johannesburg and Polokwane to provide much-needed supplies to SOS Children’s Villages across South Africa for their Mandela Day and Responsible Business contributions. The national director of the SOS Children’s Village, Stephen Miller, who flew in from Gauteng for the day, made an impassioned plea at the home in Thornton, asking all contributors to sustain their partnerships, which should not only happen once a year, “We are a humanitarian agency and rely so much on the donations and sponsorships we receive. We are funded by government but need all the help we can get.” Miller added that SOS Villages across South Africa provided a home to 1000 children from dire circumstances. In most cases they have been abused and, as Miller said, “it’s an opportunity to correct the wrongs that were done to these children”. Some of the youngsters, between the ages of 3 and 12 end up at the villages when there is a family emergency, such as being arrested, or need to be removed from their homes and families for safety. The SOS villages also assist a further 6000 children through its outreach programmes. The 11 units in Thornton house about 93 children in the care of housemothers who Miller describes as “the pillars” of the homes and the children. “The housemothers create a family-like environment. It’s a vocation for them. This is their life,” he said. Miller quoted former US president Barack Obama’s speech during the Nelson Mandela lecture this week: “This is not an easy task but we have to persevere.” Staff from the three Radisson Hotels in Cape Town started preparing for their Mandela Day event in mid-May and have been to the SOS Village in Thornton many times over the last few months to paint and to provide bedding and everything needed to kit out an entire house. Le Vendome reservationist and responsible business co- ordinator Shanaaz van der Vent said they adopted one of the 11 units in Thornton and have been working on soft refurbishments since June. “We have replaced damaged soap dispensers, put up new curtains and did window and did other maintenance work,” she said. Another staff member, Natessa Naidoo, said she was inspired by the legacy of Nelson Mandela and motivated by people on the streets. “We must help others, the kids. They need love. The whole world needs you,” she said. Supplies handed over by the Radisson Hotel group included T-shirts, blankets, toiletries, towels, apples, sweets and 100kg of washing powder. And while Mandela Day is now over, staffers have pledged to keep on working with the units they have adopted, to ensure that the children there lack for nothing.