The 29-year-old, whose roots are in Howick, KwaZulu-Natal, started his odyssey from Bathurst in the Eastern Cape to Morocco in April to raise awareness about general animal cruelty. Then donkeys took his focus. He has bumped into several while wandering his way through the former Transkei and attracted a following on his Facebook page “A Donkey’s Life”. “I am now trying to raise awareness and funds to adopt a donkey at a sanctuary in the Karoo.” The creatures have been in demand by the Chinese market, which has prompted many people all over Africa to hand donkeys in at abattoirs that have been set up in countries across the continent, impacting on their availability for agriculture and transport in impoverished communities. “There is a belief that donkey skin can cure insomnia but, like the rhino horn, it’s a fallacy,” said Horn. Treatment of donkeys in this process gets as cruel as their being skinned alive, according to reports. The Economist has described donkey skins as “the new ivory”. Many abattoirs have been closed down but others still operate, especially in Kenya and Lesotho, Horn added. Lesotho is his next destination, which he will travel to with more speed, having been given a bicycle by a sponsor. His journey so far - more than 800km from Bathurst to Bulwer - has been on foot. On the way he has handed out paraphernalia and spoken at schools. He has also experienced South Africa, which many people are inclined to associate with crime in a stereotypical way, with friendliness and hospitality. “People often ask what I am doing, then warn me that it’s not safe to stay out, and invite me into their homes,” said Horn, adding that on a number of occasions he has even slept in the bush. The only theft he has suffered has been a bunch of bananas, from monkeys at Mtwalume on the South Coast. Travelling this way in the age of the internet has also meant that he and his followers have been able to communicate with people in places he is yet to enter, asking if they can put him up. Horn avoids cities, which has meant that the donkeys and mules he has encountered tend to be valued for their transport and agricultural use, and not mistreated. He has, however, mistreated himself, getting shin splints when he reached Margate, for which he had to take time out to recover. Although he is only expected to arrive at his destination in June next year, he has already made the news in Morocco. He told the trilingual Arabic, English, French publication Yabiladi that he hopes to visit the Dar Zerhoune Donkey Project once he’s there. And after that, what’s next in store for the fellow who has worked in the film, hospitality, electrical and organic farming sectors, as well as at a kids’ camp in the United States, and travelled South America? “I want to help some causes,” he said. “I don’t want to just be spending my days working from nine to five. I want to do something for a community, to raise awareness for something that is to do with conservation and preservation.”