Residents in the sleepy farming town of Wellington are living on a knife’s edge as police believe a serial killer who made “Wellington his own private graveyard” has been preying on desperate women seeking jobs as far back as 2012. Police say they have nabbed the killer, but they are uncertain how many women may have fallen victim to his reign of terror. Johan Williams, 47, briefly appeared in the Wellington Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Last Monday, detectives arrested Williams shortly after they discovered the body of Kuils River mother, Chantell Matthysen, 21. An investigation led to the discovery of the bodies of two more women who had gone missing in the area. On July 2 Matthysen’s body was found in a shallow grave near Aubon Rue Farm along Lady Loch Road. She had been strangled to death. She had left home on a train to Wellington to meet the accused, who had promised her a job as a fruit packer in the area. She was last seen on June 23. On July 4 a partially burnt body was found near the Bakenhof Farm on the R45. This week it was positively identified as mother-of-three, Maria Isaacs. The clothes on the body helped to identify her. Police approached her family after they reportedly found her driver’s licence on the accused. Isaacs, too, had left her family with Williams, who had promised her a job in Touws River. She went missing on June 16. On July 5 a skeleton was found along the R45 and the family of missing Natalie Jonkers was contacted to provide DNA swabs for testing. Jonkers went missing after having met up with the accused on June 12, 2012, when he allegedly offered to facilitate a meeting where she would get R5 000 to pay debts. All three women went missing in the month of June. They were last seen with Williams and all the bodies were found either along the R44 or R45 in Wellington. Williams faces two counts of rape, two counts of murder and assault with intention to cause grievous bodily harm. Williams is yet to be charged with a third count of murder as state prosecutor Nathan Johnson requested a two month-long postponement for possible further charges against the accused and more time for further investigation. This willl allow the police Victim Identification Centre to get a positive DNA match for the skeleton found. Dressed in a pair of jeans, white T-shirt and a jersey, a seemlingly  emotionless Williams walked into a packed courtroom and scanned the crowd for familiar faces. His teenage daughter sat among his relatives, including a brother. After a short appearance in which his legal council indicated to the court that no instruction had been received in terms of bail, Magistrate Brenda Mpako postponed the matter to September. Investigators continue to comb the area and accompany Williams to more sites after he reportedly spoke about other bodies, which prompted searches but have so far not yielded any results. Community leaders from the area said they were left shaken after the grisly discoveries and the possibility of more women being found. Police are tight-lipped on progress of the investigation stating that the case was still ongoing. Chareen Arendse, a representative of the Women on Farms Project, said more needed to be done to fight crime in farming areas. “Policing in rural communities is still a challenge, it takes forever for police to register cases of missing women and children and that creates a breeding ground for instances like this one where it takes months, if not years to connect the dots,” she said. Another community leader, Gorden Fortuin, said: “There are a lot of women on farms sitting without jobs and they fall victim to people who want to take advantage of them... promising them jobs, only for them to end up dead.” “If this man killed the first woman back in 2012, who knows how many more he has killed... we could be sitting with a man who has made Wellington his graveyard.” Clinical and forensic psychologist Ivan de Klerk, said the ruse allegedly used by Williams to lure his victims was common in a country plagued by high unemployment. “In South Africa that is a very typical modus operandi, where you offer work and then lure the victims to a secluded location... It is unfortunate because of course these women are desperate for work and you wouldn’t want to pass up on an opportunity.” De Klerk said the accused could be taking police on a wild goose chase, but police were in an impossible position where they had no choice but to investigate any leads. De Klerk said although serial murders were not unique to the country, the number of culprits could be exacerbated by poor policing. “I think society has a serial killer problem, I don’t think it is an epidemic in South Africa, but everywhere in the world you have people who are actively committing serial murders,” he said. “But the only thing that makes South Africa more likely to have serial murderers is the fact that our policing is not up to standard, so things like detection and apprehension of these kinds of criminals is a lot more difficult.” Weekend Argus