The 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star and her beau Younes Bendjima hit the headlines this week when he appeared to throw shade at her online after she shared a picture of her in a tiny thong bikini. But, although he has since deleted the harsh comment - in which he asked: "Is that what you need to show to get likes?" - he's reportedly fuming with her for flashing the flesh and parading her body around in front of the world as he believes her saucy pictures should be for his eyes only.     don’t be shady, be a lady☀️ A post shared by  Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on Jul 16, 2018 at 11:18am PDT A source said: "He never liked that she posted sexy pictures of herself on social media. He doesn't want his girlfriend to do that. He gets that it's her job, but wants her to post more covered up picture. He has always had a problem with this. This is the stuff they argue about and what made them split in the past." And, to rub salt in the wound, the majority of the cheeky uploads were taken while they were travelling around Europe together with Kourtney's children Mason, eight, Penelope, six, and Reign, three.     mauvais garçon A post shared by  Younes Bendjima (@younesbendjima) on May 10, 2018 at 10:36am PDT An insider told PEOPLE magazine: "Kourtney and Younes spent several weeks together in Europe. They had the best time! It was hard for Younes when Kourtney left and returned to L.A. with the kids." The 39-year-old beauty started dating 25-year-old model in October 2016 but they didn't make their relationship public until the following May out of respect for Kourtney's ex-boyfriend Scott Disick. But it didn't take long for their relationship to heat up as by December, friends said they were "serious." An insider said previously: "No one thought their relationship would last this long, but Kourtney is very happy. Younes has met her kids. Kourtney's family really likes him. He's the opposite of Scott. He doesn't party, isn't flashy and really treats Kourtney with a lot of respect. It's obvious he really cares about her."