In a report tabled at the city’s human settlements and infrastructure committee meeting on Tuesday, it was revealed that plans were afoot to build more than 8000 housing units in uMgeni Road, Albert Park, Warwick bus depot, Block AK west of Gladys Manzi Road, the old Durban Drive-In site and near the table tennis building in Epsom Road. The objective of this, according to the report, was to provide rental or co-operative housing options for low-to-moderate income earners at a scale and form that requires institutional management. “In terms of the Social Housing Act 16 of 2008, the municipality must, where there is demand for social housing within its area, as part of the processes of integrated development planning, take all reasonable and necessary steps, within the national and provincial legislative, regulatory and policy framework, to facilitate social housing delivery in its area of jurisdiction, among other responsibilities,” the report stated. Further, the report, which still has to go before the city’s executive committee and then to full council, said the project would provide good quality rental accommodation for low- to-medium income qualifying households earning between R1500 and R15000 per month. The plan is to have flats and businesses on the ground floor at the drive-in site. Martin Meyer, DA councillor and human settlements committee member, said the project was still at a very early stage, and that it would be some time before a final decision was taken. People “The city can’t take away the parks from the people, hence the need for public hearings on the matter. We should be looking at alternatives such as selling the land instead, and refurbish the existing buildings belonging to the city. We need to be very careful in dealing with this matter,” Meyer said. The DA acknowledged the need for more social housing in the city, but said it was particularly concerned about the proposed North Beach sites. “The Star Seaside Children’s Home and Victoria Park are in extremely close proximity to high-value residential and commercial properties, and the land is potentially worth tens of millions to the city. I have requested to meet with the ­responsible deputy city manager, Beryl Mphakathi, to look at this matter. “Our DA members on the human settlements committee have also requested oversight at the various proposed sites,” said the DA’s chief whip at the municipality, Nicole Graham. She said the Victoria Park site was currently open space, but the city wanted 900 units to be built on it. “I think there are plenty of options in and around the city that could be more feasible and address the city’s housing problem without the risks associated here. “We have to protect our rates base and economic assets as a city, and also ensure that residents can protect their property values, which many rely on as a primary economic investment,” she said. Pat Acutt, of Acutts Estate Agents, said experience in a number of cities around the world showed that what the city was planning did not work. Acutt said such ideas had a negative impact on property values in affected areas. “Such ideas also affect the culture of these areas. If you were to decide to move into a quiet area and suddenly there are new neighbours who do not stick to the rules you viewed as suitable for a good living (standard), you are likely to withdraw your idea. “If residents of a particular area don’t mingle, then you can’t force them. Many of our parks have already been desecrated, so the city should rather maintain them and look for other land,” he said. Daily News