But several Bo-Kaap organisations say it is a ploy and that construction delays could see it sold to development companies. “We are challenging the City to stop selling our land and to stop gentrifying our community,” Bo-Kaap Civic Association chairperson Osman Shabodien said. There was confusion about who would benefit once houses were built. “We are supporting this but that land in particular is located between Tamboerskloof and Bo-Kaap. The question we have now is who does that land now actually belong to and who will get preferential treatment, Bo-Kaap or Tamboerskloof residents?” asked Bo-Kaap Youth spokesperson Safwaan Laubscher. The largely defunct military base in Tamboerskloof, Erf 81, could either serve social housing or mixed-use housing needs and holds a possible solution to the housing problems in Bo-Kaap. Bo-Kaap community activist Tauriq Heuwel said: “Earmarked is a pie in the sky. Whether the land is for Bo-Kaap or for Tamboerskloof nobody can really say until it is allocated.” Ward 77 councillor Brandon Golding said: “We have been engaging with national government regarding the piece of land for a long time. We met with residents to tell them that plans are in place to unlock that land.” Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said the military base could alleviate the social housing problem in the city. “That piece of land is substantial and is owned by the Department of Public Works and we have been requesting from them to hand over the land to us. This will assist us with implementing affordable housing in Bo-Kaap and the inner city.” Herron said that the City was relying on this. “I have received a positive response so far from national government,” he said. The land is maintained by the Department of Public Works but is managed by the SANDF. The department referred the Cape Argus to the SANDF for comment. “We are only aware of our plans as SANDF, we are not aware of housing developments,” Brigadier General Mafi Mgobhozi said. Mgobhozi would not divulge the SANDF’s plans. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus