For “court watchers”, the stories they read don’t satisfy their curiosity and so they spend their time and hard-earned money to get the story behind the story, straight from the horse’s mouth, as it were. Weekend Argus met one such woman, Claire Beukes, who felt she had a duty to support the families of victims and perpetrators alike as they navigate the sometimes scary judicial world. Beukes, 50, from Manenberg, is a carer for the aged and when she is not working, which is most of the time, she spends her days at the Cape High Court, where she moves from trial to trial to offer support and advice to strangers. “I have a passion for people. I want to make an impact on my broader community. Many people are scared of court. I tell people the court is here to walk the journey with you, as long as you tell the truth.” Beukes not only sits in on court proceedings but has become the “human newspaper” in her area, where she educates and informs her community about the interesting, and sometimes disturbing, cases she observes. “Sometimes the media reports are not accurate. My community trusts me to bring home the correct version of events,” said Beukes. She spends about R24 a day on transport to Cape Town and, if you throw in R55 for lunch, her “court bill” sometimes exceeds her monthly income. “Every now and then, I get invited to lunch by the families. But I always say, if you plan properly, there is always a way.” Beukes said she was fascinated by the Diego Novella, Nikita Lewis, Mortimer Saunders, Sheree Prins, Yagyah Robyn and Henri van Breda trials, which have received much media attention recently. “All my friends and family know about my passion for people. In Manenberg, I am known as the ‘Blue Ribbon Mom.’” Beukes said she was often called to assist women in labour and sometimes found them on the verge of giving birth. With no time to run home for surgical gloves, she made do with bread packets. Another issue for the gang-plagued area is ambulances often cannot enter, so Beukes steps in. She has delivered three babies. Beukes said she was driven by her deep social connection to the people of Manenberg and perhaps her greatest gift was she was not shy and would speak to anyone. “There are also many foreigners who are on trial here and very often their families do not know the processes, so I help where I can.” “I am always for the courts. Although they have education, they also need wisdom and strength from God. Prison is also a place for new beginnings. It’s not the end. There’s still grace for everybody.” Weekend Argus spoke to several court reporters who had covered the Dina Rodrigues, Najwa Petersen and Shrien Dewani trials and a common thread was the support “court watchers” offered the parents of the deceased. “It’s this fascination with human drama. People get emotionally involved in every bit of testimony and evidence. They take sides. It becomes their world for a while. The people involved in the cases become their heroes and villains,” said a journalist who covered the Rodrigues trial. “People are especially interested when a child is involved. They usually attend the first three appearances, then there is a lull. This could also be because of all the postponements. Some families just never attend because of finances. “In some cases, the families do not feel safe to attend court proceedings. Where there are gangs involved, the community does not attend, like in the case of Ezra Daniels, who was killed by an alleged gang boss,” said another. “For some people, the stories they read in the newspapers affect them so much and they want to be there. They have this ‘it could have been my child or it could have been me’ feeling towards the trials. I know of a former pathologist who is sitting in on the Jason Rhode trial because he has a professional interest in the matter,” said a reporter. “Court-mongers say they are in court to support the families of the victims of violent crimes. They come to make sure the family have had a meal or coffee, offer support by way of counselling or even just a hug. “These are usually people who do not even know the victims but they are there to look the accused dead in the eye. It’s amazing to watch these ladies - usually mothers and grandmothers. They often know more about the cases than we do. They believe their mere presence will ensure the criminals are punished,” said another court reporter. Beukes insisted her reasons for were purely humanitarian and she had no intention of giving up her fascination with courts.