Staff moved into the new building known as Water City, in Bellville, at the beginning of last month. Now the City of Cape Town is forced to supply employees with bottled water for drinking. Some employees who spoke on condition of anonymity said a few of their colleagues fell sick due to the contamination, which was detected two weeks ago. Officials insist the level of contamination was below levels which might pose a health risk. However, a report prepared after an analysis of sampled water, concluded that potable water at the building was “aesthetically” unacceptable, and might pose chronic health risks. “The city (council) is investigating the matter and is endeavouring to take the necessary remedial action. “So far it appears to be localised near the supply to the Water and Sanitation head office building. “It is certainly not a widespread problem,” said director of water and sanitation services Peter Flower. Samples of water were taken at various sites, including two floors at Water City, nearby TOC building and Louis Leipoldt Hospital, Bellville Library and Parow Health Resource Centre for analysis. The results found the presence of some hydrocarbon compounds with xylene being the predominant one. It also showed that the concentration of xylene was the highest at the site where Louis Leipoldt Hospital is situated. However, the quantity of the compounds was unclear. Levels of some hydrocarbons were higher than the limits sets by global world health bodies and could pose serious health risks. But the report stressed that due to the lack of data, it was impossible to advise if the compounds found in the samples exceeded the guidelines. Flower said the source of the contamination was unknown, and the analysis did not indicate any element present that exceeded the drinking water standard limits. Among the recommendations in the report was that staff who laid complaints and other employees at affected buildings, be advised of the findings. But hospital spokesperson Hermien Everts said no information was shared with them, although water samples carried out on March 28 and June 8 were clear. The hospital is built on a site that was a BP fuel station but it was not clear whether underground storage tanks were removed and how. 
BP did not respond to questions.