The Black Panther star and legendary South African actress is in Cape Town and teamed up with rising African actor, writer and producer, Ernest Napoleon, to raise funds for children born with congenital heart disease (CHD). The duo will be the star attractions at a charity event fashion show at Kenilworth Racecourse tonight which aims to raise funds for babies born with CHD. Monies raised at the event will be handed over to Heart Of Hope. The organisation was established in May, 2012 and is recognised as a 
leading CHD awareness and advocacy organisation that has pioneered CHD in South Africa. Heart of Hope founder 
and director, Monique Kemp, said global statistics show 
that approximately one in 100 children are born with a 
heart defect and CHD is considered the number one birth defect in the world and also the main cause of infant 
mortality. “Most causes of CHD are unknown and there is currently no preventative treatment or cure. “In South Africa, as in many parts of the developing world, CHD is not considered a critical illness. There are limited Paediatric Centres of Excellence and even less resources, funding and facilities dedicated to paediatric cardiac care,” she said. Kemp said the enormous disparity between cardiac children treated in private to that of the public health system is largely attributed to financial affordability of families affected by the burdening costs of children born with CHD. Chiume and Napoleon initially met via social 
media and only met face to face at the premiere of Black Panther in January in Los Angeles. Napoleon, who was born in Moscow, to a Tanzanian father and a Russian mother is also no stranger to Cape Town - this is his third visit to the Mother City and he plans to visit often for work. Chiume told Weekend Argus that it wass her belief that “as long as a person has health, we must give back”. “CHD is very close to me. If you are fortunate to have health and you have been given the gift of life we must help these young children whose lives have already been affected. I am proud to say that Tata Mandela’s heart was close to all children and so we must honour his legacy,” said Chiume. The veteran actress had encouragement for the parents of children born with CHD: “We are with you in spirit. This is not just prayer without action. You have our support.” Napoleon’s reasons for being a part of this charity event is much closer to his heart and home, he has two sons and one is borderline autistic. “It really is serendipity that I find myself here and just days ahead of what would have been Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday. “My father’s country has always been a friend of Mandela. “There is a big connection between South Africa and 
Tanzania. “I generally have a soft spot for kids,” said Napoleon. Chiume also shared with Weekend Argus her feelings on being part of the cast of Black Panther saying she summed up the whole experience as: “It was my chance. God has given it to me”. While Chiume has 40 years’ experience in showbiz, she said it was still an honour for her to share the silver screen with other legends like John Kani, Angela Bassett and Lupita Nyong’o. “When I first arrived there, I immediately felt like I was reunited with my brothers and sisters. “It was so beautiful. Even now that I am talking about it, I still get goosebumps,” said Chiume. Napoleon shared with Weekend Argus that he has been catching up with industry colleagues in Cape Town and wants to produce a movie about the secret police cult unit in Cape Town. 