Cape Town - “Marceline is back home safely”, the headline read. In reality, Marceline Spandiel and her twin brother have no home or family who want to take care of them. Nor do they have a school to attend. While she was found late on Tuesday after having been missing since July 10, the lives of the 11-year-old twins, who have been passed from one foster home to the next over the years, have become even more complex. “We have a social worker at our organisation and she will be talking to Marceline tomorrow (Thursday) about what happened and why she did it. It’s important that she and her little brother get settled as soon as possible because they have no school to go to,” Pastor Adam Alexander, from the Uitsig Care Mission, said on Wednesday night. The twins from Uitsig, Ravensmead, were sent to a child-care home in Stellenbosch at the beginning of the year, but after they ran away four times, the court ordered that they be returned to their grandmother until a foster home could be found for them. “She and her brother had attended Tygersig Primary last year, but I have spoken to the principal and there is no place for them at the school. We have to go back to the department of education because the children need to get back into a school. “We have previously worked with Marceline for some time and we suspect that she might have been abused. She is very intelligent and agile physically, but her brother (who is in Grade 4, one lower than his twin) is a bit slow mentally. “I spoke to a social worker and we are considering sending Marceline to Huis Vredelus in Elsies River (which accommodates female children between the ages of 12 and 18), where the kids are monitored. There is also a school there. “The boy we would then leave in the care of his grandmother because he seems to have a psychological problem due to possible foetal alcohol syndrome. He needs to be sent to a special school, but that can only happen when he is 14 years old. “But we need to separate the two because Marceline had wanted her brother to get on the train with her when she ran away from home now and is influencing him.” Cape Times