Now the TV presenter-turned-businesswoman is once again dominating the local media and entertainment space, this time with the successful launch of Project Runway SA, while also readying the local version of Elle magazine for a fresh new look.  The founder and chief executive of Ndalo Media secured the rights to the US reality TV show last year, along with a licensing deal for both Elle and Elle Decoration magazines. It’s a massive achievement for the woman who started Ndalo Media 11 years ago in a 50-50 partnership with Media24, before ultimately buying the shares back from the Naspers-owned media giant. “The first brand was Destiny magazine, and that was just print, followed by Destiny Man, and then online for both. We moved into contract publishing - Sawubona (SAA in-flight magazine) was our first big client - and we’ve added Liberty and others. There’s now an events division, books division and a TV division,” said Dhlomo of her impressive and ever-growing empire. She said her initial idea for Destiny was for it to be the magazine of choice for the “affluent, progressive black woman”. “(We were) in a fortunate position to be able to enter the media industry with the support of such a powerhouse. It assisted us from an advertising point of view, distribution and also from print.” Apart from media, Dhlomo has interests in property and industrial manufacturing, which has won her the respect of her colleagues and elevated her to role-model status among young, aspirational women. With the Elle venture, Dhlomo said she saw an opportunity to own an international brand, and while she admitted the magazine’s transition had not been without its challenges, she feltthe brand fitted into Ndalo’s content offering perfectly. “We wanted to broaden our market reach and I also didn’t want Ndalo to only speak to the black market but to the South African market.” With Project Runway SA, Dhlomo said she couldn’t believe how well the first episode of the show was received on Tuesday night on Mzansi Magic. “I had to almost wipe my eyes because we managed to get consumers’ attention in a noisy and competitive environment. We were trending at number two (on Twitter) and we didn’t know how we would perform because of the World Cup semi-finals.” Project Runway SA is a fashion competition that focuses on 12 aspiring fashion designers, who will live together for a six-week period in which they compete in weekly challenges to test their creativity, resilience and design and practical skills. The contestants will be judged by a panel of fashion personalities, who will decide who stays in the competition and who is out until there are three contestants left. “I think Project Runway fits really well with us because you’re giving a platform for, and exposure to, designers, increasing the standard of design in the country and giving international opportunity to a designer who gets to go to the Paris and New York fashion weeks,” Dhlomo said. Of the future, she said: “Print is part of our ecosystem, it’s just less prominent because of the variety of choice, and I really see TV and video becoming the main platform. "We’re looking at a TV property for Elle Decoration (and) we’d like to plug music and entertainment into Ndalo later this year we’re going to be launching something that speaks to that.” *  Project Runway SA airs on Mzansi Magic at 9.30pm on Tuesdays.