Spokesperson Captain Philani Nkwalase said fraud and corruption were crippling the country economically. “You would be surprised, cases that we are currently investigating involve some prominent business people who have been trying to avoid taxation or put extra money into their pocket using various illegal methods.” Just last month, 40-year-old businessman Suman Panday appeared at the Specialised Commercial Court in Bellville facing a charge of corruption emanating from alleged gratifications paid through EFT to a procurement officer, Daniel Poggenpoel of Lamberts Bay Foods. The alleged payments were made between May 2010 to May 2014 amounted to a total of R182 000. “It is alleged that Panday unlawfully and intentionally paid Poggenpoel in order to improperly influence the awarding procurement-of-plastic tender,” said Nkwalase. The Hawks are also hoping to crack down on municipality fraud and corruption. George Municipality was recently investigated by the Hawks and a search-and-seize operation was carried out for alleged fraud and corruption on procurement processes and awarding of contracts. Langeberg Municipality is also subject to a search-and-seize operation following allegations of fraud, corruption, money laundering and contraventions of the Municipality Finance Management Act at the municipality. “Allegations have been levelled against senior municipal officials and private individuals in relation to gross violation of procurement processes and maladministration.” Search-and-seize operations are being conducted at Langeberg Municipality Robertson, Langeberg Municipality Kommando Building Robertson, Thusang Disaster Recovery Site Robertson, Callie De Wet Sportsentrum Robertson, Tourism Langeberg District, Langeberg Municipality Ashton, a private business and about 15 private residences. This was in the wake of interference by officials who allegedly removed potentially incriminating documents from municipal offices to private homes in an attempt to avoid being prosecuted. Several suspects have been arrested by the unit for syndicate commercial crimes. Thandeka Brenda Nyanda was arrested after she was linked to several fraudulent refunds transactions with duplicate bank cards between February 5 and April 23. These fraudulent transactions were processed on several devices at H&M Table Bay Mall and the Waterfront stores and resulted in financial loss of R672 363. Nkwalase said the crime trend was ongoing. He warned that people needed to be more aware when using their cards. The method of cloning of bank cards involves a secondary device which is fitted by suspects over the ATM scanning device where cards are usually inserted. Although the unit is making strides in addressing cloned bank card fraud, he said the Hawks were still working to clamp down on more suspects. Two suspects recently appeared at Muizenberg Magistrate’s Court for possession of five cloned bank cards each. They were subsequently charged with contravention of section 86 of the Electronic Communication and Transaction Act 25 of 2002. They were also charged for several fraudulent transactions around the province. A warrant of arrest has been issued against a third suspect, Arthur Guidendabe Dube, 38, who is also allegedly linked to the same criminal acts. Identity theft is on the rise according to Nkwalase. He said people were often tricked into giving their identity document out by being promised a job and a good credit score. The suspects then steal their information and create their own ID. “Things are then bought from various places on credit; you then become liable for the bill even though you know nothing about it.” A former car sales representative was arrested on May 21 in Ladysmith for his alleged involvement in aiding vehicle fraud syndicate that happened in November 2013. A Hawks investigation revealed that an elderly woman was allegedly deceived by a group of suspects and submitted false documents (ID and payslip) in support of as an application for BMW convertible. After receiving the vehicle, the woman was dropped off and the kingpins vanished with the vehicles.