“I beat lupus that cost me a kidney,” said Louise Schachat, 59, a retired nurse who now makes a living as a dog walker. “I beat depression that almost drove me to suicide. I’m a survivor.” Schachat spoke exclusively to Weekend Argus less than 24 hours after being moved from Life Vincent Pallotti Hospital ICU to a general ward, where she took her first five steps since being rushed to hospital last Thursday. She spent six days in ICU under sedation recovering from a fractured pelvis, fractured ribs, a punctured lung and extensive bruising and abrasions on her body and face. Schachat sustained the injuries during a struggle with her hijacker, who dragged her towards Main Road Rondebosch for as long as she could hold onto his neck through the driver’s window of her car. “This youngster came from nowhere and pulled open my driver’s door and flung me out on to the ground,” said Schachat, recalling the moment the hijacker struck in her driveway as she returned from walking her dogs in Newlands Forest. “I jumped up and grabbed him hard around the throat through the window screaming: ‘Leave my dogs, leave my dogs.’ But he carried on reversing at such a speed that my tyres were spinning. And then he sped off down Grotto Road with me screaming and thinking: ‘You will not take my dogs, you will not get the better of me, I will hold onto you until you let Sacha and Khaya go.’ “I hung on for dear life, squeezing his throat, but he swerved left and right and after about 90m until I couldn’t hold on anymore and went flying into the gutter. I couldn’t move my body. All I can remember is saying to myself, ‘Breathe, just breathe.’” Despite her injuries Schachat said she had no regrets about fighting her hijacker. “Unless you’re a dog lover, you won’t understand how much I love my dogs. They are like my children.” Schachat’s bond with her golden retriever Khaya is particularly strong. “He’s my rehab dog. Six years ago I was so sick from lupus treatment I could hardly walk. But gradually Khaya got me walking again, bit by little bit. Eventually after four years, we were walking 20km a day. That’s when I decided to become a dog walker. Now I walk nine dogs a day on the mountain.” Khaya was rescued by police after they chased and arrested the 19-year-old Phillipi hijacker, who has since appeared in court. But her Labrador cross, Sasha, ran off after the hijacker hit her in the face in retaliation for being bitten. She was found only on Sunday following an extensive search. By then, Schachat had almost given up hope. Then on Sunday when one of her client’s broke the good news she raised the roof of ICU with screams of joy. The moment her physio puts her into a wheelchair sometime next week, Schachat said she would head to the ground floor for a reunion with her beloveds. Schachat said when police told her this week the hijacker was a first offender and just 19, her heart went out to his Brown’s Farm mother. “As a mother she doesn’t deserve this, but I’m not withdrawing charges. He deserves to pay. He’s in Rondebosch police cells at the moment, but that’s like being at the Mount Nelson. He needs to go to Pollsmoor. Then he will know what it’s like in prison.” Weekend Argus