Cape Town - An interdict issued against members of the Bo-Kaap community, blocking them from interfering with Blok developers, has been withdrawn. The interdict, which was issued earlier this month during increasing protests within the community, prohibited anyone from going near the development and cited violent acts committed by civic organisations as part of the reason for the interdict. This saw hundreds of residents flock into a courtroom at the high court to defend their rights to access the area and protest. The interdict withdrawal came as a surprise to community members, who were issued with the letter by Blok attorneys, stating that the withdrawal is done in the spirit of “de-escalation”. “Blok understands that the Bo-Kaap community are not violent people but are passionate about their heritage and frustrated about the fact that, in their view, the City has been ignoring their requests to protect their heritage and the area of the Bo-Kaap. “We respect the culture and identity of the community, which is immutable to the area itself, rooted in things deeper than the foundations of a building. The interdict ordered was not against the broader community. The sole intention of the interdict application was to protect the innocent people on-site who were being targeted by the acts of violence,” read the statement. The statement further said that Blok is committed to continuing its engagement with representatives of the community to achieve a mutually acceptable, sustainable and peaceful solution to the situation going forward. Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association Osman Shabodien said the withdrawal of the statement is something the organisation will have to take back to the community to gauge how the community feels about it. Osman said the withdrawal could have legal implications regarding their case with the Human Rights Commission. “We treated the interdict very seriously as it had a profound impact where our community is concerned. It affected all of us, saying anyone who trespasses will be affected. It’s not a question of saying yes we’re happy or no we’re not happy, lots of things need to be unpacked. “We need to consult our community in light of the seriousness of the matter. We are hopeful that things can work out for the best and we’re hoping to resolve things, that's why we’re taking it back to the community,” said Shabodien. @IAmAthinaMay  athina.may@inl.co.za  Cape Argus