 The Duchess of Sussex and Prince Harry clearly have no qualms with public displays of affection. Meghan gave her husband a congratulatory kiss on the lips on Thursday as she joined a long list of royal ladies – including Diana, Princess of Wales – to hand out a polo trophy. Meghan also gave the victorious team captain, international polo legend and male model Nacho Figueras, a friendly peck on each cheek. But she clearly only had eyes for one man – and it was obvious the honeymoon period between the newlyweds hasn’t come to an end.      Meghan, sporting a £2,357 (about R40 700) Fifties-style denim-look Carolina Herrera dress, could be seen affectionately rubbing Harry’s back before they walked away from the ceremony hand in hand.      The couple were at the Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club, a short drive from Windsor Castle, for the annual match in aid of the prince’s charity, Sentebale, which supports the mental health and wellbeing of vulnerable young people affected by HIV in southern Africa. Harry co-founded the charity with Prince Seeiso of Lesotho in 2006, naming it Sentebale – which means ‘forget me not’ in the local dialect – in memory of both their mothers. Meghan made her way into the stands to watch her husband on the field, clapping as he scored two goals to propel his Sentebale St Regis team to 5-4 victory. The duchess then took her place on the victor’s stand to hand Harry his spoils. Afterwards the couple walked off hand in hand as Harry carried a leather bag of goodies and performed a jokey dance. Figueras, a close friend of the prince, said afterwards: "The duchess is lovely and wonderful. I’m very happy for Harry. "They are both lucky to have found each each other and I am very excited about this new chapter in his life.’ He said Meghan had been excited to present the trophy, adding: "She said she enjoyed the game. She watched the game with my wife which was wonderful because she could learn more about the game. They are very, very happy." Daily Mail