But in recent years, the Jive Cape Town Funny Festival has come to represent something more for this city. It’s so integrated into the life of Cape Town that it is often planned around when Ramadaan ends. The annual comedy festival is a unique experience when compared to a regular visit to the theatre. It attracts a diverse and loyal group each year. The courtyard of the Baxter Theatre is filled with the aroma of grilled boerewors. Plebs and celebs alike mill between the blaring jazz music and Zip-Zap youth performers dropping from the ceiling in painful-looking contortions. Like with every artistic performance, it’s not possible to like everything at a comedy festival. But Cape Town favourite Marc Lottering is a clear star of the show. The segments at the festival aren’t very long, so there is a challenge for the performers to balance their delivery and timing. Lottering excels here. He has the ability to take the audience through stories while threading them together. His delivery is consistent as he builds pace to a neat end of a set. My other favourite of the night was Canadian performer Mooky Cornish, who was a charming clown. Her performance depends on audience participation and that is a variable that changes between performances. She clearly is able to make people feel comfortable, while staying in character. The show is tied together by Alan Committie, who compères the evening. His humour is very observational. He feeds off the audience and his energy is never too much. His boyish humour and his way of explaining things had me in stitches. I couldn’t wait for him to return to stage each time. I appreciated the efforts of newcomer Reagan Allen. He won a development competition at Cape Town Comedy Club to have a slot at the festival. There’s a clever silence at the start of a set, which allows you to wonder what he sounds like. Enjoy his tales of boyhood in Mitchells Plain. French clown Raymond Raymondson’s humour wasn’t for me. He presents himself as some sort of gymnast who doesn’t quite get things right. It’s more commentary on attention-seeking and could have a deeper layer of art that I don’t quite get. But if you like slapstick humour, you may enjoy the performance for that value. I winced through parts of Siv Ngesi’s performance, a comedian that we have seen some good acting from. Expectedly, some of his humour was race-based. As in the past, he made jokes about black people and swimming. Elements of ego came through in the performance and audiences who may not be used to him could find an overbearing, cocksure and loud routine. So loud, in fact, Committie made a joke about turning up the microphone to hear him better. In terms of comedy skills, it’s not the best idea to laugh at your own jokes and compared to other performances it was disjointed. He did have a good toilet joke, though. It is possible to make jokes about race without being crude. Tats Nkonzo proved that as he authentically spoke about his experiences of being black in Cape Town in places like the beach and the Promenade. I liked the way he compared life in Joburg and Cape Town. The Jive Cape Town Funny Festival is on until August 5 at the Baxter Theatre. Bookings are available via Webtickets.