It seems this is what has become the “new normal” for many workers. Having our emails delivered to our phones, being permanently connected via social media and having the ability to work remotely means we never really unplug. Working around the clock has become a status symbol. The more hours you spend at work, the harder you are perceived to be working. But the reality is that while many of us work long hours because of very real work demands, these long working days often negatively affect our productivity and health. When I was appointed editor of a group of community newspapers just over 10 years, working at least 12 hours a day was a demand I placed on myself. I wanted to do everything. I saw delegating as a sign of weakness. I wanted to prove I could do the job even though I was young, even though I was a woman. It was only many years later that I realised that no one at work really cared that I was at my desk at 6am every morning. I, however, had to start caring when I realised the impact the relentlessly long, stressful days were having on my personal life and my health. At the time I was also studying toward a master’s degree - and piling on loads of weight. The more time I spent at work, the less I had to focus on my studies, which led to more stress, which led to more eating and drinking, which led to the weight gain. Which led to my doctor saying: “You’ve got to lose weight, or else.” While I have always incorporated exercise into my routine - and which was possibly my saving grace - I realise now that chronic stress, the resultant poor quality sleep and a complete lack of focus on what I was shovelling into my body were the key causes of the unhealthy state. Since I started writing this column, I’ve focused largely on the importance of health food choices, but this week I’d like to talk about the importance of sleep - and I mean real, quality sleep - in living a healthy life. One of the things that can affect your ability to rest well is chronic stress. While acute stress is short-lived and what you experience in a situation that requires you to go into fight or flight mode, chronic stress is ongoing and can be caused by ever-looming deadlines, a boss with whom you have a difficult relationship, or working long hours. A lack of quality sleep has been shown to negatively impact one’s memory, mood and emotional health as well as physical and mental performance and can also lead to weight gain linked to the release of the stress hormone cortisol and the production of insulin. Research has also shown that poor sleep patterns negatively affect the body’s immune system. So, how do you ensure you get a good night’s sleep and enough of it? Develop a bedtime routine which includes winding down, maybe drinking a cup of chamomile tea, dimming the lights and definitely turning off the TV and putting down your phone or tablet. To ensure that I get enough sleep a night I use the bedtime app on my phone to remind me when it’s time to get some sleep. I know this defeats the purpose of unplugging, but it does help. Avoid drinking alcohol or eating a heavy meal just before bedtime. Create a peaceful, comfortable environment in your bedroom. This includes making sure you’re not too hot or too cold when you turn in for the night. For more on health and wellness, you can check out my blog at www.editedeating.co.za or follow @editedeating on social media.