The 30-seater Sirvaun’s Theatre is located in Steenberg and occupies the top floor of a residential home complete with a reception area for waiting before the show, the stage and theatre itself and a green room for the acts to relax in before the show. Hickley said that when he 
grew up in the area there was never any institution dedicated to promoting the arts in the community and, after a stint of working in Joburg, he returned to Cape Town in 2010 to begin work on his theatre. “It’s entirely funded by me and 
I used whatever I could find to put 
it together. The ceiling of the theatre is made of old house doors, the 
stage lights are old baked bean tins that I strapped and put dimmer lights in and I put old window frames in the house so we can use them to put the acts posters in,” said Hickley. “My wife and I used to live in the house and we would sleep in the different rooms. When I completed something we would move to the next one. Eventually, she got fed up and said enough now.” The 36-year-old works for a marketing firm during the day but uses all of his spare time to build up the theatre. Blink and you might miss the theatre on the corner of Diamond Drive and Zircon Circle as there are no signs to indicate that the building houses Sirvaun’s and, according to Hickley, the theatre has not officially been opened but is operational. Hickley partnered with Keenan Cerff, who runs the Comedy House, to bring comedians to the theatre on the last Friday of every night with Nik Rabinowitz, Conrad Koch and Chester Missing, Stuart Taylor and Yaseen Barnes having all performed on the quaint stage. “It’s easy to get the comedians in here because the stage is only made for one act or person type show and comedians generally draw a crowd,” Hickley said. Performers are charged R250 to put on their shows at the theatre with all of the money going back into the maintenance of the theatre and paying a car guard on show nights. Last year Hickley staged his Agter Elke Man production and cast Candice Constable as the lead. He wants more one-person plays to be put on at the theatre and hopes the space can become a bastion of inclusivity. “The residents have been really supportive and don’t mind all the cars that show up. My idea is to have this be a new experience and get people who have ideas for acts to come here and put them on and, through that, maybe the community will see that theatre doesn’t have to be this elite thing that isn’t for them.”