France and Croatia line up for today’s World Cup final in Moscow - it’s a match that encapsulates the crazy, emotional journey we’ve been on since the first ball was kicked on June 14. Such has been the action, surprise, tension and drama of this competition that time seems to have stood still and we’ve been swept away by the ardent idiosyncrasies so unique to football. The climax of the competition certainly throws up the possibility of some intriguing moments. Croatia’s skipper Luka Modric is, for me, without doubt, the man of the tournament, and deserves to be awarded the Golden Ball, the prize for the best player on show. But France’s midfield roadblock Kante has been impressive too - and it will be interesting to see whether he is able to minimise Modric’s influence on proceedings. French teenager Mbappe used Russia 2018 to announce his arrival on the international stage. Already highlighted for his potential after stellar seasons with Monaco and Paris St Germain, the 19-year-old is now a global phenomenon. The speed with which the young Frenchman took Argentina apart in the last 16 will be remembered for a long time - and, now, the question is whether Croatia can deal with his electric, frightening pace. France are the favourites, rightly so. They’ve gone about their business with no fuss and little sparkle, but they’ve been highly effective. In essence, they’ve sacrificed flair in favour of a more practical approach. The emphasis has always been on structure and reducing risk - and nobody in the French team has epitomised this philosophy more than Paul Pogba. Having watched the ostentatious Frenchman frustrating the life out of Man United manager José Mourinho last season, because of his underwhelming performances and unwillingness to scrap for the team, his mature performances at Russia 2018 have been admirable. It’s evident that Pogba has finally started to grasp that football is not just about him, but about the team: he’s been low-profile, but brilliant; he’s got involved in the ugly side of the game; he’s been flash 
when needed and then popped 
up in important defensive situations too. France have certainly benefited from the growth in Pogba’s game - and, needless to say, Mourinho probably can’t wait to unleash the player on the Premier League next season. But don’t write off this Croatia side; if you do, you do so at your own peril. They’ve already demonstrated their commendable resolve and endurance, and exemplary perseverance and resilience. Led by Modric the Magnificent, backed up by Mandzukic the Fearless, and Rakitic the Relentless, Croatia have nothing to lose and a helluva lot to gain. It’s their first-ever World Cup final: there can be no better motivation than to continue to upset the odds. History beckons for France manager Didier Deschamps. If France win, he will join an elite club that currently consists of only two members - men who have won the World Cup both as a player and a coach: Brazil’s Mario Zagallo (1958 and 1970) and Germany’s Franz Beckenbauer (1974 and 1990). Deschamps captained France to World Cup success in 1998 - now, 20 years later, he is on the cusp of an amazing double, an achievement to savour. History calls.