Weekend Argus has been investigating the scam which has left unsuspecting prospective property buyers defrauded of thousands of rand and without homes. What makes matters worse, the attorneys facilitating the sales have denied involvement saying, they were only acting on instruction by the sellers. Between November and last month, 10 people have come forward to tell of how they were fleeced out of between R60000 and R130000 by syndicates who pose as estate agents or as property owners. The latest victim left her contact details on a Facebook page advertising cheap houses in Khayelitsha. She had hoped to buy a house for cash before the birth of her child. A would-be representative of the seller called her about a house in the township. She was shown a house in G section which she liked and offered to buy for R155000. The next day, the woman agreed to meet would-be seller, Ntombomzi Mdekazi, 60, at Nomachule Oliphant Attorneys offices in town to sign a contract. A search at the deeds office shows that the property on the deed of sale drafted by Oliphant was registered under Mdekazi’s name since 2013. However, there is no telling whether the woman the buyer met was the real Mdekazi or an imposter. The 26-year-old buyer said the seller claimed she did not have a bank account so the money should be paid into her daughter’s account who was accompanying her. Concerned about this, the seller said she informed Clifford Mokatsane, Oliphant’s assistant that she was willing to pay into the law firm’s trust account until transfer was finalised. Oliphant, who said she was out of town when the transaction took place, said she asked Mokatsane to handle the matter on her behalf. The buyer transferred R100000 into the account of Mdekazi’s daughter, known only as Zukiswa, as instructed by the seller and Mokatsane. It was when she could not reach the seller, the following day, that she realised she had been robbed. Oliphant could not answer all the questions posed to her, saying the matter was being investigated by the police. She said she drafted the deed of sale based on information supplied to her by the owner of the house, adding that if the buyer did not agree with the terms of the contract, she should not have signed. “The monetary part of the transaction was handled by the seller and the purchaser and we did not advise (the buyer) to pay any monies to the seller or the seller’s daughter,” said Oliphant. Police spokesperson André Traut said no one was arrested in connection with the alleged fraudulent sales. He said the reported cases were all under investigation. “Complainants who are not satisfied with the progress of their cases or a lack of communication on our part are encouraged to approach the management of the station and lodge official complaints,” Traut said.  noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus