Now, 31-year-old Peters from Durban plans to expand his service nationally after it proved to be a success since its January launch. Peters’ OneCart is expected to be in Cape Town by October . It’s like “Uber for groceries”, but not only will someone deliver the groceries to your door, a OneCart employee does the shopping for you. Wanting to make life more convenient for people, Peters created OneCart to allow a consumer to shop at a number of their favourite grocery stores online, in one basket, with a single delivery fee per location. The service can get the items to a user within two hours or, if they wanted it to be scheduled with deliveries, on the hour. Trained shoppers receive the order via an app in real time. “OneCart customers are notified when the order is received, the shopper begins the shopping and then delivery is on the way,” said Peters. Peters has partnered with Pick *  Pay, Woolworths, Dischem, Clicks, Fitchef and Pets by OneCart which offers pet food online and bottle stores. “Like most people, I generally don’t enjoy grocery shopping and the experience of standing in queues, 
paying for parking or sitting in traffic. In a fast-paced world, especially when I lived and worked in Singapore and now Joburg, I noticed most professionals are in the office until the evening. They don’t often really have the time to go out and get the things they need,” said Peters, who is an electrical engineer by profession. This was the one of the reasons he created OneCart. “It played in my head 
for a long time and I thought that there are probably many young professionals, moms, dads and elderly people who have the same experiences. And that’s essentially how OneCart was born.” Peters began his electrical engineering career in control systems engineering where 
he designed the control systems and electronics for trains. He then decided to move back to South Africa in early 2016 to build up a local research and development incentives practice. “It was during this time that I was conceptualising OneCart and the idea just wouldn’t leave me alone.” Peters is planning to get more stores and categories on board and wants to launch the service in Durban before the end of the year. “The future of OneCart is going to be very exciting. We will be launching in Cape Town by October. I really can’t wait to launch in my old hometown, so we promise to be in Durban as soon as possible,” said Peters.