Zelda la Grange has been former president Nelson Mandela’s secretary, butler, aide-de-camp, spokesperson, travelling companion, confidante and, honorary granddaughter. Now in  Nelson Mandela’s centenary year, La Grange aims to continue the legacy her beloved Madiba left behind. This month the former presidential private secretary will organise the ninth Bikers for Mandela Day in partnership with the Nelson Mandela Foundation. La Grange, who is a biker herself, began the annual event in 2010. “I bought my first bike about 15 years ago. When I was thinking about what I could do to continue Madiba’s legacy, I thought why not organise a group of bikers to do something. There’s a lot of goodwill in the biker community. For most it’s a hobby so they have the financial means to contribute to charity,” said La Grange. This year the rally is in aid of the Keep a Girl Child in School campaign, which aims to collect sanitary pads for the three million girls who miss school annually because they cannot afford basic sanitary products. “Madiba believed that every small effort counts in bringing about change. My hope is that all riders of scooter bikes, superbikes and everything with two wheels and an engine will join us to make a massive impact for this cause.” The event brings bikers from across the country together and encourages them  to arrange a ride in their own cities or join the mass rallies planned in Cape Town and Joburg on July 14 and 15. Bikers are invited to meet at the Grand Parade in Cape Town where they will  travel to Drakenstein Prison, formerly known as Victor Verster Prison. It was at this low-security prison, nestled between Paarl and Franschhoek, where Mandela spent the last 14 months of his 27 years of incarceration. The Joburg rally will begin at the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Houghton and travel to the Union Buildings in Pretoria. Registration is free  and participants are encouraged to sign up on the Nelson Mandela Foundation website. Participants are asked to also bring one pack of sanitary pads or as many as they can afford or can carry for the ride. A donation of as little as R180 can provide enough sanitary pads to keep one girl in school for an entire year. Each year the group aims to support a different cause or initiative, and more than 10000 people have since benefited from the initiative. Bikers have helped restore orphanages; delivered food and blankets to old age homes; provided stationery to schools; planted vegetable gardens in poor communities and renovated facilities at rape care centres and police stations across the country. “This time we chose girls because Madiba would be shocked if he could see how many girls struggle every year by missing school,” said La Grange. “We started as a small group initially and travelled to rural areas in the country. We were about 60 people then but it’s difficult to say how many people take part because there are different groupings who sometimes do their own thing. There is one group that has around 300 bikers.” The fiery blonde has come a long way since beginning  work as an anonymous typist in the presidential office in 1994 before she became Mandela’s private secretary. In 1999, Mandela asked her to stay on as part of his post-presidency staff. Together with Professor Jakes Gerwel, La Grange was the only other founding staff member of Madiba’s post-presidential office who helped establish the Nelson Mandela Foundation. The foundation remains committed to  Mandela’s legacy, and are mandated to promote his lifelong vision of freedom and equality for all. La Grange remains in awe of the work done by her former mentor and says she still takes the lessons learnt from Mandela to heart every day. “He was such a gentle person and soul. He never thought of the bigger thing but cared about the individual person. I so admire his leadership and consistency, which I try to use in my 
own life as a tribute to him,” she said. Over a period of 19 years, La Grange served Mandela in various capacities, including as his personal assistant, spokesperson, manager of stakeholder relations; aide-de-camp and manager of his private office right up until 
his death on December 6, 2013.   “I can still remember one of the last times I visited him in hospital, he still had this beaming smile on his face. That smile is a memory that will stick with me forever.” She has added to  her work with the foundation and is involved with various other charitable initiatives. This month will also see the launch of the new Afrikaans talk show, Tussen Ons on Kyknet & Kie, which includes La Grange as one of five female panellists. The others are Ingrid Jones, Tracey Lange, Kay Karriem and Success Lekabe. “There is a great chemistry between all five of us. “We are strong women with matriarchal personalities, yet our common ground is respect hence the dynamic works perfectly,” said La Grange. She wants to pursue issues of race, violence against women and children, substance abuse, psychology, healing from the past, public shaming, bullying, and animal care on the show. “I want us to discuss difficult current issues and show that we can have a difference in opinion and disagree with respect so that other people would take from our experiences and do the same.” And she will draw on the influence of her former boss for the show. “The fact that he could engage with everyone and listen to them is what I think Tussen Ons will be,” La Grange said.