“Our main thing in this sport is safety,” Elton Weise tells Andrew Moffat of the Worcester branch of Outfitters 4 Africa, one of southern Africa’s leading gun suppliers, during a video interview in which he advocates gun safety and licensing procedures and tells of the importance of regular weapon practice. “We all love firearms,” he continues, posing in the gun shop in front of an assortment of shotguns and rifles. “But there’s a lot of people out there who don’t know how to handle them properly.” As the video rolls, Weise discloses that he started shooting 26 years ago at the age of 18 and has been a combat shooter for over 12 years. “I thought (when I started) that I could shoot but realised that without any proper formal training there’s no ways you can shoot.”   Weise, originally from the Eastern Cape, moved to Worcester about four years ago. He says he owns 11 firearms, including three 9mm pistols and one 10mm handgun. He also reveals that he is a member of the De Doorns Skietklub. In the same video interview, where Weise is acknowledged as an Outfitters 4 Africa “ambassador”, he stresses safety drills and shooting range practice are critical when it comes to preventing tragic accidents. “The biggest problem is it’s two in the morning, there’s a loud bang, you run to the safe for your firearm, you can’t find a torch, you are lost... you’re walking down the passage, kid walks in front of you... (gets shot) it’s happened too many times.” Weise’s shooting prowess can be seen in a number of videos on Outfitters 4 Africa’s Facebook page, where he fires a semi-automatic shotgun and an automatic rifle at a local range. In one Weise practises combat shooting drills with one of his 9mm pistols with deadly accuracy. Outfitters 4 Africa’s Moffat declined to comment on Weise and asked through a third party that the videos not be published even though they were openly shared on Facebook. Photographer Dewald Kirsten, who filmed the videos, had no objection to them being shared. “I know Elton well and the stuff I’ve read is very biased,” said Kirsten. “I’ve got no idea what happened but Elton was very safety conscious. He knew what he was doing. I can’t see him pulling a gun and shooting someone at point-blank range just for the sake of it. “That’s not the guy I know. Something must have happened based on what I know of his character. “It doesn’t make sense. He knows the implications of shooting someone. He must have a good reason to draw his weapon.” Weekend Argus