Cape Town - Mayor Patricia de Lille has vowed to work with the film industry to grow and transform the sector. On Wednesday, De Lille delivered a speech at the City of Cape Town’s Film Industry Engagement where stakeholders signed a pledge. "About a year ago I addressed Cape Town’s film industry and we talked about the challenges the industry faced and how we could help grow the sector," De Lille said. "But things have changed for the worse. I understand the past year has been one of the toughest for the industry and it is time for frank and open talk." De Lille affirmed the City of Cape Town's commitment to making the Mother City a film-friendly destination, and "the film hub of Africa as well as a gateway to the rest of the continent". "But one thing is for certain. The business-as-usual approach cannot continue because, if we do not adapt, we may not have a film industry next year. "I want to assure you that the City is committed to creating an enabling environment for every filmmaker, producer, service industry, animator, editor and set builder," De Lille said. "We introduced no tariff increases for the film industry in the 2018 /19 financial year. "We are committed to looking at all possibilities including a zero-based tariff for the next two seasons to ensure our film industry recovers and continues to create jobs. "Another commitment is the City’s determination to unlock more locations to shoot films. "We are working with the industry and partners to open up the Civic Centre, the Steenbras Dam and the dunes outside Atlantis as filming locations. "This follows on a demonstration of our dedication to the industry when we transformed the Good Hope Centre into a film set for use by the industry." In the past year, the City issued 6 996 permits for various film shoots, she said. "I’ve also visited Los Angeles with Wesgro where we met with a number of the big Hollywood studios about bringing more productions to Cape Town. "We managed to secure some fantastic partnerships and received a number of ideas on how we, as local government, can help the industry progress." The industry needed to have a long, hard look at its operations in terms of inclusivity and access, De Lille said. The industry could not benefit just a few top players, she said. "As an inclusive and opportunity City, we are committed to removing any other constraints or barriers in your way to ensure that you have success while working here in Cape Town." 5 KEY PLEDGE COMMITMENTS Collaboration - Commit to working together to build a thriving local film and media industry. Fair business practice - Commit to charging reasonable and competitive rates and practice ethical and fair business. Transformation - Commit to helping with transformation to create a representative, fully inclusive and diversified industry. Sustainability - Commit to water-wise and sustainable productions and have respect for both residents and the environment. Promotion - Commit to promoting Film Cape Town to create jobs and grow the economy. @CapeTimesSA  ctnews@inl.co.za  Cape Times