In a wide-ranging interview in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates he also said corruption had to be rooted among state officials as it was robbing the poor. Ramaphosa, who was in the Middle East this week as part of an investment drive to raise $100 billion (R1.33 trillion) in the next five years to revive the economy, said the ANC leadership had to be credited with preventing a split in the party in the wake of its elective conference in December. “I am the president of the ANC. I am not a dictator of the ANC. The ANC has a national executive committee which has been given the responsibility of leading the ANC in between conferences,” he said. “The ANC ethos, culture has always been collective leadership, and we are not going to depart from that because people want to see a dictatorial leader.” Ramaphosa, emboldened by the $20bn that the UAE and Saudi Arabia pledged to South Africa in the space of two days, said he would rather be seen to be weak than split the ANC. “Before president (Jacob) Zuma resigned, they were those who were saying, ‘You are a weak president, why haven’t you kicked president Zuma out, why haven’t we dealt with him?’ I said I would rather be seen as a weak president than... split the ANC, because that is not my mission. “I (have a) mandate; even if I am told that ‘you are a weak leader’, (and asked), ‘why didn’t you kick out Supra (Mahumapelo), why didn’t you do this?’ I am forgoing unity in the ANC.” The president has come under fire from within and outside the governing party for the way in which he dealt with Zuma’s exit and the eventual recall of former North West premier Mahumapelo. Since then, a push-back campaign against Ramaphosa has emerged from Zuma’s home province, KwaZulu-Natal, the North West and Free State, where 
his opponents were plotting to convene an ANC national general council to oust him. But Ramaphosa said he was not worried about those conspiring to remove him, saying he was “relaxed” and had a “mandate” to steer the ANC ship. He said he was happy with the progress made in cleaning up state-owned enterprises (SOEs), saying that he would soon announce a presidential council which would co-ordinate efforts to fix the SOEs. “This is where this parasitic, corrupt network had really embedded itself deeply - in our SOEs. We are now in the process of dismantling it brick by brick. It will take us time, but we will get there. “Will we succeed in dealing with those who might have benefited from state capture? Yes. The 54th conference of the ANC was very clear and said we must root out corruption within our ranks. And rooting it out may result in some leaders or some people being caught in between.” Ramaphosa’s comments came as Zuma’s son, Duduzane, became the first prominent player to face charges related to state capture. Asked whether he would request the extradition of the Guptas, believed to be in Dubai, Ramaphosa said: “The extradition of those who have done wrong in our country follows due process and that due process must be left to those entities that deal with those matters, so there is no undue political interference.” Ramaphosa this week visited Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. He said the Saudis, who had pledged $10bn to South Africa to be channelled into energy and power generation, wanted to build an oil refinery in the country. Abu Dhabi, which also promised to invest $10bn, was interested in investing in tourism and the oceans economy. “This is going to be a major boost for our investment drive... playtime is over, we want to get our economy going.” Weekend Argus