CAPE TOWN – Renowned cricket writer and sports editor Michael Doman passed away on Sunday night. Doman had taken ill last week, and was aged 57. He is survived by his wife Lorelle Bell and three sons – Luke, and twins Jamie and Liam. Before Doman had become a journalist, he was a top-order batsman for the non-racial Western Province Cricket Board team, and was part of the legendary 1979/80 side that won the Howa Bowl title. Some of the illustrious names alongside Doman were Saait Magiet – who passed away earlier this month – and his brother Rushdi, Lefty Adams and Vincent Barnes. Doman was first a news reporter for the Cape Herald newspaper, and later became a cricket writer and sports editor for the Cape Argus. At the time of his passing, he was the Cape Sports Co-Ordinator for Independent Media. Tributes have already been made on social media, with many describing Doman as a gentleman, ‘warm and friendly’ and always willing to guide younger colleagues and teammates. Rowan Abrahams: “I’m speechless sitting at my desk right now, having just heard the news of the passing away of the legend Michael Doman...always wonderful to stop and have a chat to about anything. Very heartbroken... RIP Michael” Junior Bester: “Completely lost for words right now. A great mentor in my career and life has passed. RIP Michael Doman!” David Skippers: “So sad to learn of the passing of Michael Doman. A true great in South African journalism and one of my mentors as a sportswriter. A gentleman in every sense of the word and a real sports lover, especially his cricket. Rest in Peace, Mike D.” John Goliath: “Shocked to hear about the passing of former Cape Argus cricket writer and sports editor Michael Doman. Sports journalism has lost a true gentleman. Had the pleasure of working with Mike for a few years, and learned a lot from the big man. Condolences to colleagues who knew and worked with him and his family.” Peter Heeger: “So sad to get the news of the passing of a great gentleman Michael Doman. RIP Mikey. My last communication was at 18h50 last Saturday and as a true professional he checked if I had correctly captioned a photograph. Deepest condolences to his wife and her wonderful sons.” Gasant Abarder: “Tragic news this morning with the passing of @TheCapeArgus sports editor and former cricket writer, Michael Doman. A gentleman, scholar, confidante. A man with a lovely disposition who always had my back as editor. You will be missed. Rest in peace!” * Funeral details are yet to be announced. @ashfakmohamed IOL Sport