Durban - WhatsApp is among the most popular messaging apps in South Africa and Africa and an integral part of our lives. The social messaging platform has a reported 1.5 billion users worldwide of which some 172 million come from Africa. However, WhatsApp has come under the spotlight in recent months over how easy it is to spread hoaxes and fake news over its app. The company has responded by now labelling Forwarded messages and limiting the number of times a user can forward a single message. But if you want to give up the app completely, here are three alternatives. Viber Viber has more than 900 million users worldwide. Just like WhatsApp, users can text, voice call and video call with just an internet connection. People can also share videos, pictures or audio notes. All calls and messages on the app are protected by end-to-end encryption and allows people to manually authenticate contacts to be sure they are talking to the right person. Hike Hike can be a great alternative to WhatsApp and has gained a reputation for its privacy. Hike allows users to hide their private chats using a password, which is impressive. Hence, users get to keep hike messenger accessible at their fingertips while also maintaining some degree of secrecy and privacy at the same time. Hike messenger also provides huge stickers in conversations. Moreover, it also keeps users engaged with live cricket scores, news, and other features. Telegram Telegram is a probably the best WhatsApp alternative that allows users to send and receive encrypted messages. In fact, the sole purpose of this app is messaging, which is fast and accurate. Telegram also has real-time synchronisation of messages across various platforms. So if you start typing some message on your smartphone, you can finish that on your desktop and send. Users just have to log into both the devices (mobile phone and desktop) at the same time. Also, if you move to a new phone, all your conversations are readily available by simply logging into your account. Daily News 