Cape Town - Police minister Bheki Cele is set to visit Zwelihle, in Hermanus, along with a high-level police delegation, on Friday. Cele and Western Cape police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula are to host a mass community meeting at the Zwelihle Sports Ground at 1.30pm. "Minister of Police Bheki Cele together with Western Cape Provincial Commissioner Lt General Khombinkosi Jula, will tomorrow Friday, 20 July 2018 be in Zwelihle, Hermanus," police spokesperson FC van Wyk said in a statement. "This is in light of the recent protests in the area that threaten peace and stability, and a March today 19 July 2018, in Nyanga to deploy the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) in the area. "There will be a public engagement session with community members." Zwelihle has been rocked by violent protests over the past few weeks. Initially, the protests were about a lack of housing and land, as well as poor service delivery. But, ward councillor Lindile Ntsabo said the protest is no longer about “the land issue”; the protesters are now demanding the release of Gcobani Ndzongana and the other 19 fellow community members who were arrested during an initial protest. There are also claims by the residents that they are being prevented from freely moving from the settlement into the Hermanus CBD, and are being held hostage in Zwelihle by the police. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The land issue was settled on the 27th of March by the Department of Human Settlement, and everyone seemed to be happy,” said Ntsabo. “On Friday, Premier Helen Zille attempted to address the angry residents of Zwelihle about the escalating violence in the area. The residents did not allow her to say a word and instead of engaging her on their grievances threw stones she was forced to abandon her attempts and left.” Ntsabo added: “Some of the community members are scared, they are being held hostage, some are told and threatened to protest.” Theron Mqhu, Zwelihle Renewal spokesperson, said: “The tensions remain high in our community. People are frustrated and angry, demanding their leaders be released from police custody. “We are standing with the community that it will be a total shutdown till the return of Gcobani,” said Mqhu. @CapeTimesSA Cape Times