Teenage girls from South Africa, the United States of America and Tanzania have taken it upon themselves to create a network through which to support each other and to learn from one another’s experiences. The girls have just concluded a 10 day road trip where they visited various parts of the Western Cape distributing sanitary towels in underprivileged communities, challenging each other to face their fears and engaging in strength activities. The group also engaged in intergenerational conversations with women leaders from the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development and the travel and tourism industry;  visited the Worcester Thuthuzela Care Centre and Court to discuss the impact of violence on girls and women. The BRAVE SA-US girls road trip is a joint initiative between the U.S. Consulate General in Cape Town and BRAVE, a South African non-profit organisation. Ferlin Du Preez,18, of Gugulethu was one of the founding members of Brave in 2010.   She said the organisation was about creating safe spaces for girls in communities in South Africa and that its reach was expanding to create a network of girls around the world. She said they started out concerned about their physical safety in communities in Cape Town. “One of the things we did was erect benches with contact details for anyone to call whenever they felt a need to talk to someone or a shoulder to cry on,”said Du Preez. Also participating in the road trip were six  American girls from Girls for Gender Equity and other U.S. girl-led organisations,  seven South African girls from BRAVE and two Tanzanian girls from the Singita Grumeti Fund Girls Empowerment Program. One of the girls from Tanzania, Rabiya Mbawala, 16, spoke about how girls in her home country were affected by poverty, unfavourable cultural beliefs and early pregnancy.   She said because of the lack of resources, during menstruation, girls were forced to stay at home or to use pieces of cloth as sanitary towels. In schools where there were no toilets to change, the girls were forced to carry their used sanitary towels in their school bags to dispose off at home. Mbawala said in some communities, girls were taken out of school to be trained to be married women. “When they come back, they do not wish to go back to school. They just want to be married,” said. The girls said they learnt that their experiences and challenges were similar.   For Imani Maliti,17, from Bronx, New York, the similarities in the lives of girls and women of colour was startling. “In the USA, we are still affected by the results of years of slavery and segregation, and when I came to Cape Town, I noticed that girls and women of colour here are affected by years of apartheid and oppression.” Maliti said.“It shows that there is a connection in our struggles and by coming together we can overcome,”she said.  @NoloyisoMthembu noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za