After several complaints by the community, Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) Western Cape met the chief executive of the hospital, Anwar Kharwa, and the district manager on April 23. Their list of demands included that the hospital reduce waiting times; improve staff attitudes and accountability; increase bed capacity; address the shortage of doctors and nurses; ensure a proper complaints system; and establish a permanent clinic committee and a strong board that seeks to serve the needs of public healthcare users. During the meeting, the hospital management outlined expansion plans, including the addition of more beds and a new wing to create more space. However, no changes have been seen. The issues related to shortages of staff, neglect and poor attitudes have not been addressed. This led to the TAC, which had been monitoring the crisis at the hospital over some time, to stage a picket and sit-in at the hospital on Mandela Day. The group’s provincial chief executive, Vuyani Macotha, said the situation at the hospital was dire. “Recent monitoring by TAC branches at the hospital and numerous further complaints over the last two months present a bleak picture of overcrowding, shortages of staff, poor staff attitude and neglect of patients, a shortage of beds, and people forced to sleep on the floors of a hospital full to capacity,” said Macotha. “Sleeping on the floor is only part of the mistreatment that patients may get at KDH, but it is emblematic of a growing problem - inattentive and inadequate care on behalf of hospital staff and management,” he said. “Night-shift nurses are ignoring their patients or treating them poorly. There are countless cases of nurses being on their computer instead of taking care of patients or downright neglecting them. “One community member informed the TAC that their relatives had been wearing the same adult nappy for 24 hours. “In addition to instances of staff ignoring patients, reports can be found of people unable to find staff in moments of emergency, such as TAC member Phumeza Runeyi, who could not locate any member staff after her brother had been stabbed,” he said. According to the TAC, the hospital, which has a capacity of only about 400 000 patients, services a majority of Khayelitsha’s 2 million population as well as other areas such as Mitchells Plain and Mfuleni. While the hospital denies that patients are sometimes forced to sit and wait on the floor, they also confirm that there are only 300 beds to accommodate the huge influx. “Khayelitsha District Hospital has 300 beds, which is in line with the amount of beds required for this type of hospital and is running on an occupancy rate of 130%. It provides both district and regional hospital care to residents in Khayelitsha, Mfuleni and beyond,” said hospital spokesperson Sthembiso Magubane. In April this year, Parliament’s select committee on petitions and executive undertakings made an unannounced visit to the hospital following allegations of negligence and findings of poor and incomplete record-keeping levelled by Nehawu. According to a report by parliamentary communication services on behalf of the chairman of the PSC, Dumisani Ximba: “The committee witnessed patients lying on the floor, a large number of patients slumped up in chairs having been there since noon the previous day.” Three weeks ago, Weekend Argus published the story of 62-year-old Satashe Mxatule, who was forced to sit for more than 24 hours on a chair while he waited for medical treatment. Mxatule had been in a car accident which caused his rib cage to fracture and bones plunging into his lungs. At the time, several other patients had been plonked on the floor as there was a shortage of beds and chairs. However, according to Magubane: “Patients are asked to remain seated on the chairs provided. However, some patients do not heed the request to remain seated and choose to lie down on the floor. Recliner chairs and trolley beds are made available for all patients who spend the night at the hospital’s emergency centre.” Thandeka Bunu, 36, a hypertension patient, was referred to the hospital earlier this month but after several hours of waiting on the cold floor, decided to leave. “I visited a local GP after feeling faint and light-headed, when she checked my blood pressure, it was too high and immediately ordered me to go straight to the hospital. It was a Thursday, there were no beds and no available chairs. We had no choice but to sit on the floor, no sick patient would ever willingly sit on an icy floor,” she said. “This hospital’s staff simply does not care about us and I believe the truth of the matter is it is because we are poor. I left the hospital because I was not going to allow my dignity to be tarnished in that manner any longer.” Days after Bunu discharged herself from the medical institution, more pictures of patients sitting on the floor surfaced. Staff at the hospital, who spoke to Weekend Argus under anonymity, also confirmed that “adverse incidents” had increased over the past year. These were deaths, patients falling off the bed and non-attendance of patients because of negligence. Khayelitsha Development Forum secretary Malibongwe Badi confirmed this, citing two cases of alleged deaths owing to negligence in one week.