The former president’s son was flagged when he arrived from Dubai on Thursday. He was questioned for three hours and evaded arrest at OR Tambo International Airport. But Independent Media can today disclose that police top brass and intelligence are working closely to ensnare him. According to highly-placed sources privy to the investigations, an existing warrant of arrest was due to be executed on a case of corruption that is related to state capture. “The matter is related to the statement made by Mcebisi Jonas to the public protector,” said one source, who requested anonymity. “There was a warrant of arrest that was issued and it’s going to be executed on Monday. There is strong evidence against him.” Jonas, who was the deputy minister of finance, told former public protector Thuli Madonsela that he was allegedly offered a R600 million bribe for the job of finance minister. The meeting is said to have taken place at least a month before then finance minister Nhlanhla Nene was sacked in December 2015. After turning down the offer, the job was given to Des van Rooyen who held the position for a weekend. The financial markets tumbled and he was replaced by Pravin Gordhan. Jonas provided Madonsela with SMSes in which Duduzane requested a meeting with him. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi would neither confirm nor deny the imminent arrest. “I will be speaking to the media on Monday,” he said. “This is a very sensitive issue. Duduzane must be given a chance to mourn. We will talk about this on Monday.” In March, Duduzane was summoned by Parliament’s public enterprises committee along with former SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni and the Gupta brothers, Ajay, Atul and Rajesh, to appear before its inquiry into state capture. But Duduzane and the Guptas were a no-show. Duduzane has since denied Jonas’s version, and told the BBC that he was not a corrupt individual. He also denied allegations of corruption. “I’m not corrupt. I’ve not involved myself in any corrupt practice, in any corrupt business,” he said. Duduzane is in the country for the funeral of his younger brother, Vusi, who died of complications arising from lupus. Vusi was buried in a private funeral at Westpark cemetery in Johannesburg yesterday. To add to Duduzane’s woes, he has been summoned to appear in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court next week on culpable homicide charges. Meanwhile, sources at OR Tambo International Airport have disclosed how the police at the airport were left frustrated while Duduzane was being held, as they awaited a directive from their bosses to arrest him. After holding Duduzane for almost three hours, two men who identified themselves as detectives from the Hawks simply walked in and took him away. “Duduzane arrived after 8pm on an Emirates flight from Dubai. His passport flagged him as a wanted suspect on commercial crime, and our (police) officers were dispatched to go and fetch him,” said the source. “But as there was no warrant for his arrest, we didn’t know what to do, meaning we had to consult our superiors. The senior police officer at the (airport) border section was saying ‘arrest him’. We told our supervisor and he said ‘you can’t arrest him without a warrant’. It was chaos. “As we were consulting the station commander, the divisional police commissioner in the operational response services and the national police commissioner already knew about it,” added the source. “The border police then came with him (Duduzane). He was not even taken to the holding cells. He just sat on the bench with his lawyer. Two men later arrived claiming to be from the Hawks and whisked him away.” Another source said: “As he (Duduzane) sat there, there was almost three hours of consultation with no progress. Out of the blue, two men came in. They walked straight into our offices and said they were looking for the holding cells. “They didn’t even introduce themselves They said they were from the Hawks and whisked Duduzane away. They are undermining us as police officers on the ground. We feel bullied. “He was released as if nothing had happened.” The source said he had learnt that Duduzane was to be arrested soon. “I heard he might be arrested soon but it’s not clear when. But I think it will be early this week.”