This year’s National Featured artist, Nyamza  flighted Hatched at the National Arts fest in Grahamstown. It’s the sequel to Hatch, which she aired 10 years ago. Then, appearing on stage with her son Amkele Mandla, it tackled issues of motherhood, sexual identity and cultural preconceptions about traditions. The intensely-charged performance opens with Nyamza seated on a red robe swirled and fanned out all around her. If you don’t already know the dancer and choreographer, it’s difficult to see whether it is in fact a man or woman. She slowly stands up, tests her ballet shoes and moves up and down across the stage en pointe. Back and forth she goes, marking the drudgery of her daily existence. The walk on point looks painful and difficult as is evidently her life. Then she starts to hang up a pile of red clothes which are balanced precariously on her head, sometimes calling her son to help. She dances, sings, gets wrapped in the red robe on the floor by rolling it around her, then frees herself  out of it  and one can almost sense the emotions as she plays out - the feelings she is “hatching” inside and outside of her. This is not “pretty” ballet but when she moves, she showcases a strong, taut and beautifully honed body. The performance - sometimes executing precise movements - often cuts to the bone. It’s forceful and creates a certain amount of discomfort as at times she rawly unveils the conflict we all feel with identity and where and how we belong in the world. Speaking after the show, Nyamza, who lives in Gugulethu, says she’s evolved like the show and it’s changed with the times. “It tackles the issues I’m dealing with now and yes the piece has grown with me. “I’m listening to my body right now and both of us (my son and I) have grown. This has grown out of him and it’s a conversation we are having and it’s happening right now.” She acknowledges: “He is an artist too. He became one out of his own will. I don’t understanding the rapping, it’s another generation but he expresses himself.” Says Amkele: “I tell my story and also my mom’s and the way I relate to her and her sexuality and how I see life at home. It’s relevant to tell it how I see it.” Nyamza adds: “We are very similar in the way we express ourselves - it’s kind of the same art but different ways of showing it.  As a black woman my body was not really accepted. “In the show I try to put out all these feelings - like how I dealt with my marriage. “The point shoes were tools of oppression; something that colonised my body.” She says her work has changed in many forms. “I come from structures and deleted those structures as they confused me - I could not relate to them.”