This is just one of the startling allegations in the State’s case against his sibling protectors and two Cape Flats gangsters accused of the killing of Brian Wainstein in August last year, which rocked Hohenort Avenue’s suburban bliss. The quartet are due to stand trial for three weeks in November for the assassination of Wainstein, who was shot four times in his head while he slept beside his girlfriend and their child. The State’s summary of the conspiracy reads like a plot outline for a Hollywood gangster movie or series. It starts in a Mitchells Plain tyre dealership where the boss and bodyguard Matthew Breet are alleged to have hatched the plot. Seven days later on August 17, the day of the hit, the tyre boss, his associates, 27 gangsters’ Fabian Cupido and Cheslyn Adams (also a Spoilt Bratz gang member), met Wainstein bodyguard and business associate Sheldon Breet. Adams was nominated as the triggerman and Cupido the getaway driver, the State alleges. At about 9pm, the gangsters and a third man who has turned State witness reconnoitred Wainstein’s luxury home at 29 Hohenort Avenue. Later, Adams and Cupido took delivery of their getaway car, a VW Golf GTI, near the N1 Century City off-ramp. There Breet allegedly provided the hitmen and the unnamed State witness with a detailed layout of Wainstein’s home. Adams and the State witness later entered the house undetected and made their way to the main bedroom where, prosecutors claim, Adams shot at Wainstein’s head. A post-mortem revealed Wainstein died from multiple gunshot wound injuries to the neck extending to the base of the brain.  The indictment alleges that there had been no attempt to disguise the hit as a house invasion with just R100 and seven cellphones removed after the hit. Sources claim the phones contained incriminating evidence of Wainstein’s underworld links. Later the Breet brothers arrived at the crime scene, where Matthew answered Cupido’s call to find out if “the mission was accomplished”, claims the State. There’s no mention of motive in the State’s summary. But in other court hearings this year, it emerged that Wainstein had been involved in the turf war over Cape Town’s nightclub protection and extortion racket. Shortly before his death, he was trying to find out who had ordered a hit on him. Wainstein, a dual South African and Israeli citizen, was one of the biggest players in the steroid black market, according to steroid.com. He was top of Interpol’s most-wanted list for dealings in Germany, Canada and the US. The Breet brothers were denied bail while Adams and Cupido did not apply for bail. Weekend Argus