Durban - An alleged parking dispute has left a Pietermaritzburg motorist dead and his passenger critically wounded. Father-of-one Farhad Manjoo, 57, a quality assurance engineer, sustained a single gunshot wound to the chest on Friday night. He died at the scene. His friend was also shot in the chest and is recovering in hospital. The alleged shooter was arrested after handing himself over to the police. Police spokesperson Constable Mthokozisi Ngobese said it was alleged that Manjoo was dropping off his friend in Chapel Street when an argument broke out with another motorist over parking. The other motorist allegedly fled after the shooting but returned minutes later and handed himself, and his firearm, over to police, Ngobese said. Manjoo’s daughter, Thashi, said while she was devastated, she did not harbour hatred or anger towards the shooter. Thashi, who lives in Gauteng, was in Ballito at the time for a friend’s wedding. She said her cousin, Shahir, had informed her that her dad had died. “Anger is the reason my family is here today, and while I feel deep, deep pain and my heart is incredibly sore, I cannot be angry because my dad would not want me to hold any hatred against anyone. “I instead want to get involved in a programme against gun violence,” she told POST this week. She described her father as selfless, loving, supportive and kind. “He had an amazing personality, and people of all ages and walks of life were drawn to him.” Manjoo had a passion for martial arts, snooker, fishing, painting and writing. “Last January, he self-published a book on fishing (So, You Want to Fish) via Amazon, which focused on teaching beginners to fish, and it included stories on his fishing experience and recipes.” Family and friends took to social media to pay their respects, with some saying they were tired of the escalating crime. Sheethal Baijoo wrote: “Farhad Manjoo was one of the coolest people I knew. He was loved and cherished. My heart is broken” Ronitha Govender: “Every day we hear of these brutal murders, when will it stop?” Sayuri le Roux: “What lovely memories. Farhad was just that guy who was adored and loved.” Manjoo’s funeral was to have been held on Wednesday. Bongani Mncwabe, 30, was charged with murder and attempted murder and appeared in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. He was remanded in custody. POST