There are plenty of other uses to which you can put an old smartphone once it stops serving as your primary device. Here are some of my favourites. * Car phone: If you regularly mount a phone in your car, you’ll know it can be a bit of fiddle plugging in the charging cable and attaching it to the mount each time. Then there’s the worry you might be taking months off the life of your shiny new phone by baking it in the sun for hours each week, not to mention the tempting target it poses for smash-and-grab bandits at dodgy intersections. Pressing an old phone into service as a permanent car phone addresses many of these concerns. Just mount it somewhere safe and plug it into your car’s power port. Apart from acting as a navigation device, you can also use it to play music or podcasts by connecting it to the car’s stereo player via Bluetooth or a 3.5mm headphone jack. Use your primary phone as a hot spot to keep the back-up connected to the web or save money by downloading maps and audio content while you’re still connected to wi-fi. * Thief tracker: Thanks to built-in GPS and clever location apps, smartphones can be easily tracked when they’re lost or stolen. This makes an old phone the ideal “Trojan horse” device to leave lying around the home, office or in the car. If you have a break-in and the old phone is stolen along with other much more valuable items, you can use it to track down the thieves, working with authorised law enforcement officials. Android and Apple phones come with their own “find my phone” apps, which are fairly good, but I’m also a big fan of Prey, which has cool additional features like letting you surreptitiously snap a picture of the thief with the phone’s selfie camera and taking a screenshot. The free option is good enough for most users, but there are paid packages with extra functionality. Search for Prey in your phone’s app store or visit preyproject.com * Security camera: Why spend thousands on security cameras when an old smartphone can be re-purposed into a surveillance camera or, if you’ve got a few of them lying around, into a remote access CCTV network? You’ll need to load a suitable app on the phone, or phones, then just position them strategically around your home or office, making sure they’ve got a constant power supply and internet access - wi-fi will prove a lot cheaper, although a back-up SIM will ensure connectivity if the wi-fi goes down for any reason. One of the most popular apps is IP Webcam - download it for free from your smartphone’s app store - although I’ve also heard good things about Presence (presencepro.com). * Digital photo frame: One of the benefits of the trend towards plus-sized smartphones in recent years is that they make excellent photo-viewing devices. This also makes them perfect for re-use as a digital photo frame for the living room, kitchen or office. Just buy or make a suitable stand, plug the phone into a power source and run the slide show option on your phone’s gallery app. If you use the excellent Google Photos, open the app, tap on any photo in your main library or within a specific album and then tap the three-dot menu icon in the upper-right corner of the screen and select “Slideshow”. The app will then cycle through your photos. A word of advice - make sure there aren’t any photos you’ve forgotten about stored there that would set Aunt Mabel spluttering into her tea. * Dedicated e-reader: What makes stand-alone e-book readers so attractive is, you’re able to enjoy access to hundreds, even thousands, of books without the constant intrusion of an always-on gadget. But they’re not cheap. This is where your old smartphone comes in. Just load it up with your favourite e-book app, such as Google Play Books, Amazon Kindle or Nook and you’re all set for your next commute or business trip. Be sure to switch it to airplane mode once you’ve downloaded the content. * Emergency caller: Finally, don’t forget that whatever use you find for an old smartphone, it can also make emergency calls, even if it’s not connected to active service. Make sure you keep it charged and throw it in your car or travel bag for those times when trouble strikes and your primary device is dead or missing in action. Then grab it and dial 112 to be connected to your network provider’s emergency call centre. * Follow Cooper on Twitter @alanqcooper.