 BRAZIL’s ISONOMETRIC EQUALITY Brazil’s constitution of 1988 pronounces the “fundamental objectives” of the federal republic: I - to build a free, just society based on solidarity; II - to guarantee national development; III - to eradicate poverty and substandard living conditions and to reduce social and regional inequalities; IV - to promote the well-being of all, without prejudice as to origin, race, sex, colour, age and any other forms of discrimination. Article 5 guarantees: “All persons are equal before the law, without any distinction whatsoever, Brazilians and foreigners residing in the country being ensured of the right to life, liberty, equality, security and to property.” Article 7 prohibits specifically any difference in wages, in the performance of duties and in hiring criteria by reason of sex, age, colour or marital status any distinction between manual, technical, and intellectual work or among the respective professionals and guarantees equal rights for workers with permanent employment and “sporadic” workers. Article 5, in addition to “equality within the law”, guarantees “equality before the law”. The provision will be applied directly in the context of the interpretation and application of any law and has been invoked, for instance, in civil procedure, by litigants demanding to be given equal length of time in presenting, arguing and defending their claims. Differentiation is considered permissible only if it is made to achieve “relative” or “material” equality, in so far as the differentiation serves a “reasonable objective”, and is “proportionate” to the attainment of such an objective. Brazilian courts refer to the ancient Greek concept of isonomy / isonomia whereby “equality before the law” is given an equalising and anti-elitist meaning. This is often explained with a simple sketch: For example, the Federal Supreme Court of Brazil in 2012 (in RE 597.285-2/RS) upheld an affirmative action procedure in the admission process for prospective university students as constitutional on the grounds that the notion of equality included the concept of solidarity (“fraternidade”) and material justice to overcome social exclusion and social and regional inequality and to value the paramount principle of human dignity.  RUSSIAN EGALITARIAN FOUNDATION The most powerful communist party, that of the Soviet Union, was forbidden by an act of parliament on August 29, 1991, followed by the adoption of the new Russian Federation constitution of 1993. As 1998 Russia embraced western European human rights standards, it became bound in 1998 by the European Convention on Human Rights. The Equality clause in Article 19 of the new Russian constitution is a traditional anti-discrimination guarantee as we also find in Article 9 of the South African constitution. However, Russian courts have given it an original dimension, as a guarantee against the abuse of power. The Russian Constitutional Court has ruled many times that “equality” requires the legislature to make laws certain, clear and unambiguous in order for them to be applied in a uniform and consistent and therefore equal manner. Vague and ambiguous legal rules open the door for discretion by the executive branch and inevitably result in arbitrariness and violations of equality. The Russian Constitutional Court’s quest to curb arbitrary administrative action invokes the commitment in the preamble of the constitution to “faith in goodness and fairness”. Accordingly, in Russia, “fairness” has become an additional requirement in the test of constitutionality, where a law (or a decision) discriminates on less than reasonable or rational grounds or operates to the disadvantage of an economically weaker party. For instance, the court has ruled that laws regulating banking have to ensure both “formal and real” equality among contracting parties, by protecting the banking consumer against the economically stronger bank.  EQUALITY AS SOCIAL JUSTICE IN INDIA The term “justice” in the preamble of the Indian constitution of 1949 is interpreted by the courts to embrace social, economic and political justice. Each of these distinct forms of justice is secured through provisions of fundamental rights and directive principles. In Sadhuram v Pulin (AIR 1984 SC 1471), the Supreme Court of India ruled that if a deal is made with one party with serious detriment to the other, the court would lean in favour of the weaker. The judiciary has frequently given practical shape to social justice by allowing affirmative action to be held to include compensation as well as distributive justice, to ensure that community resources are more equitably and justly shared among all classes of citizens.  SOCIALIST LEGALITY IN CHINA The pillars of the classic concept of socialist legality in China is the rule in article 6 of its 2004 constitution whereby “the system of socialist public ownership supersedes the system of exploitation of man by man; it applies the principle of ‘from each according to his ability, to each according to his work.’” Article 33 determines: “Every citizen is entitled to the rights and at the same time must perform the duties prescribed by the constitution and the law.” Socialist legality in China seeks to overcome the opportunistic abuse of individual rights and freedoms to the detriment of society. By countering “excessive liberalism”, socialist legality seems to counter the excesses of power that are bedevilling development and progress in Africa. China prefers a material understanding of equality, as opposed to formal or procedural equality. Affirmative action and reverse discrimination policies originate in this tradition. In the past, in an extreme application of that principle, for instance, children of intellectual parents were barred from studying, so as to counter the perpetuation of privilege across generations.  GDP AND EQUALITY IN BRICS According to World Bank figures, China in 2013 had a GDP per year and capita that was nearly the same as that of South Africa, just under $7 000. But unlike South Africa, China had already then fulfilled the most important socio-economic rights for nearly 100% of its population as regards provision of personal security, food, water, housing, electric energy, healthcare, education, employment, retirement provision and transport. In 2017, China’s GDP per year and capita grew to $8 126, where it stands very close to that of Russia with $8 655 and Brazil with $8 649. However, South Africa’s GDP by 2017 had fallen far below the BRICS ceiling, down to $5 105. At the same time, the Gini index for inequality (differential between wealthiest and poorest) accelerated to a value of 76 in South Africa. A Gini index of 76 is the worst level within BRICS, where China scores 42.2, Russia 37.7 and Brazil 51.3. India, with the lowest GDP of the BRICS ($1 706 per capita and year), has the best Gini index of 35.1. South Africa’s index of 76 is not only worst in BRICS, but also for all OECD countries, and even globally.  INEQUALITY IN SOUTH AFRICA It comes as a shock that South Africa is today the world champion of inequality. This is so despite a most extensive set of social, economic and cultural rights in its 1996 constitution. The reason is possibly that South Africa’s equality clause in article 9 is in essence only a prohibition of discrimination provision. The Constitutional Court judgment in the 2000 Grootboom case is cheered wrongly. It failed to give a progressive interpretation to the equality clause. It reduced the right to equality to a right “to share poverty equally”. It ruled that equality would grant merely a right of equal access to whatever social and economic provisions may or may not exist.  LEARNING FROM BRICS South Africa could learn much from BRICS constitutional experiences in achieving equality. For a start, we need to accept that equality is the foundation of human dignity. Substantive, in addition to procedural equality, is the modern measure of a just and democratic society. It is the foremost goal of the state to guarantee "equality of opportunity" as well as "equality of results or outcomes". An increasingly equal distribution of social goods requires effective, cost effective and quality-controlled management of resources. The BRICS nations have made vast progress in introducing e-government, e-payment and e-administration systems that are by nature incorruptible. South Africa does not have to reinvent them. It will suffice to work together with BRICS partners beyond this 10th BRICS Summit on embracing and implementing the progress that the others have already made. * Dr Thomashausen is an attorney-at-law and professor emeritus of international law at Unisa.