While a member of the junior city council from 2010 to 2012, she was exposed to City of Cape Town politics. Baloyi will be up against Jacobus MacFarlane, Michael Mack, Fazloodien Abrahams and DA figureheads David Maynier, Bonginkosi Madikizela and Alan Winde. The candidates are to appear before a selection panel between July 16 and 23. “I believe I have what it takes to become the premier of the Western Cape, given the academic knowledge I have acquired in politics,” said Baloyi. “I was groomed to be an activist from grassroots level. I understand the plight of the poor.”  Asked about her chances, as a young black woman of receiving the post, she heaped praise on the DA for giving young people the opportunity to stand for public office. If elected premier, she would prioritise fighting crime in townships, the protection of girls and the teaching of science at schools. Sounded out on her opinion on issues pertaining to Lennit Max and Patricia de Lille and how she would handle them, she said she was a “unifier” who would not dwell on factionalism in the party, and would focus on the DA brand. Abrahams, an attorney from Mitchells Plain, believes his academic qualifications, professional experience and values, “which are geared towards the development of an inclusive South Africa”, will stand him in good stead in the race to become premier.  He is chairperson of the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Small Business Development Portfolio Committee. “I believe that the province needs a strong and capable force to ensure corruption does not filter into or grow within the DA. I also think the DA needs to create legislation that will encourage SMMEs (small, medium and micro enterprises) to establish themselves with ease and be afforded opportunities to thrive, which will result in job creation and economic development.” Maynier, a Member of Parliament, said: “I have spent close to 10 years fighting for what is right in national politics, which positions me well to spend the next 10 years fighting to improve the lives of people in the Western Cape.” If selected premier he would be build a strong team that shared his vision of uplifting people. Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde said his experience as an entrepreneur provided him with a good foundation for the position. “I am definitely a people’s person and also have wide experience both inside and outside government.”  Asked whether the DA’s handling of the De Lille saga would have a negative effect within the DA’s black and coloured constituencies, he said: “I am sure that the politics of the day is having an effect but the DA is not shying away from doing the right thing.” Other issues affecting DA constituencies were “the land debate, the economy, transport, water and drought management, unrest and protest, business and citizen confidence and much more”. “I am putting up my hand to help us all find solutions to these problems.” DA Western Cape leader Madikizela fancies his chances because he believes he is someone “who has done a lot for the people of this country and in the province”.'  “I have enough government experience and understand the challenges facing the people of this province. “I have extensive understanding of socio-political dynamics. I’m also the leader of the ruling party in the province.” Being MEC for Human Settlements had readied him for the position of premier. If chosen for the post he would focus on housing, health, education and the safety of women and children. MacFarlane and Mack could not be reached. Weekend Argus