Nicki Minaj has seemingly confirmed she is dating Eminem, after mentioning him in her new single. The 35-year-old rapper released her new single 'Big Bank' on Friday which features lyrics alluding to a relationship with the fellow rapper - whose real name is Marshal Mathers - and after posting a clip of herself mouthing along to that section of the track on Instagram, Nicki has confirmed that she is in fact in a relationship with the 'Lose Yourself' hitmaker When one fan commented on her Instagram post asking if she was dating 45-year-old Eminem, Nicki simply replied: "Yes" As of the time of writing, it is not known whether Nicki was being truthful about her love life, or if she was just teasing her fans. 'Big Bank' - which features fellow rappers YG, 2 Chainz and Big Sean - seems to hint at Nicki having slept with Eminem, who is also known as Slim Shady. Some of the lyrics read: "Uh oh/Back again/Back to back Maybach, stack the M's/Told em' I met Slim Shady, bag the M/Once he go black, he'll be back again." Nicki's confession comes after she revealed to Ellen Degeneres last year that she was trying to stay away from men. She said: "I'm just chilling right now, I'm celibate. I wanted to go a year without dating any men, I hate men." Eminem, meanwhile, has had no public relationships since his divorce from Kimberly Anne Scott - with whom he has daughter Hailie, 22 - after being married to her twice, once from 1999 to 2001, and again briefly in 2006. The 'River' rapper - who also has custody of Kimberley's 16-year-old daughter Whitney, whom she has from another relationship, and 25-year-old Alaina, who is the daughter of Kimberly's twin sister Dawn - said last year: "It's tough. Since my divorce I've had a few dates and nothing's panned out in a way that I wanted to make it public. Dating's just not where I'm at lately. "As far as going out, like dinner and a movie - I just can't. Going out in public is just too crazy. I mean, I'd like to be in a relationship again someday. Who doesn't? It's just hard to meet new people, in my position."