DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs look a near-certainty to secure the services of midfield dynamo Andile “Gattuso” Jali. It has been an open secret that the race for the signature of Jali is between Amakhosi and Mamelodi Sundowns. A highly-placed source has revealed that he is close to joining the Naturena-based outfit. “I won’t be surprised if Andile Jali signs for Kaizer Chiefs. You must read between the lines,” the source said. That will be a significant signing for the Amakhosi, who have endured a three-year barren run under the leadership of Steve Komphela. Jali has a strong pedigree and will undoubtedly bolster Chiefs. His agent, Mike Makaab of ProSport International, opened up about Jali’s situation. “The truth of the matter it is that there are two clubs interested in Andile. Both of them are good offers, career-wise and financially, if you consider that we are in South Africa,” Makaab told IOL Sport. “In the next 48 to 72 hours, Andile will make the decision. Our objective is to ensure that Andile finds a new club before the end of the month. “He has to start his programme for the new team,” Makaab elaborated about his client, who is a free agent after parting ways with Belgian outfit KV Oostende. An exodus is looming at Naturena following a season without silverware and a third-placed finish in the Premiership. The club is likely to part ways with the likes of Keagan Buchanan, Kgotso Malope, Edmore Chirambadare, Tsepo Masilela and Gustavo Paez. The likes of Emmanuel Letlotlo and Wiseman Meyiwa are set to be loaned out. “There were five clubs who wanted Andile. SuperSport United and Bidvest Wits were one of those clubs (plus Orlando Pirates),” Makaab said. “Andile wants to join a team that will make him happy, win trophies and compete in Caf competitions. He wants to join a club where he is going to enjoy longevity. “These are all the things that he needed to take into consideration. I won’t make a decision for Andile, but he will make the decision for himself.” Jali played for Pirates before making his big move to Oostende in 2014. “Both clubs will give him a great platform for his career. He has a lot to prove. He has to work hard. It is never easy coming back. Andile is in the gym every day,” Makaab added. “He wants to fight his way back into the national team. He has two incredible offers. I know I have to disappoint one club and make another one happy. “I’m brave though, I have been in this business for a while now.” @Minenhlecr7  IOL Sport  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 