Speaking from their home in Belhar, Pauline Petersen, 51, says her youngest son, John Paul Petersen, 15, and his best friend Clinton Faroa, 15, were on their way back home after dropping off a friend in the area on Saturday, 28 April. They were travelling with their 23-year-old friend in his Honda Ballade when they got stuck without petrol along Stellenbosch Arterial Road and Symphony Way. ALSO READ: Two teens shot dead after car runs out of petrol Pauline says the driver, who is known to the family, had asked the boys to go with him to fetch petrol but that they decided to stay in the car. The mom, whose flat is located behind the Stellenbosch Arterial, says the driver informed her that they had no petrol and that he had sent someone to bring some. “He asked another boy to fetch the petrol along the way and when he took too long, he went to look why he was taking so long,” she adds. “The driver then received the petrol and walked back to the car.” By this time Pauline says she had become anxious and went looking for her son. “As I walked towards the car, the driver was running towards me and he threw the petrol one side,” she says. Hope “He said they were shot.” Pauline says she still had hope for her son, who attended Bet-El School for the Epileptics. The two boys were holding each another in fear when they were shot. Both had sustained gunshot wounds to the head. “John was still alive, he was still breathing and he was sitting in the front passenger seat and they were holding one another,” she says. “I asked the police where is the ambulance, he could still have lived.” Pauline says this is the second son she will be burying in just over a year. Her son, Riaan Gilbert, was shot and killed on his 26th birthday in January 2017 in Belhar. She says she doesn’t know why this shooting happened. “He was my baby and I don’t know why someone would do this,” she says. “We will only know by Thursday how many times he was shot when the post-mortem is done.” Clinton was also one of a twin. The twin, who cannot be identified, told the Daily Voice his brother and John had been friends since the age of five. No arrests have been made.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice