The DA’s federal executive was to have made a decision on De Lille’s future as city mayor yesterday, saying it had received legal papers from her on an intention to approach the courts. But De Lille has rejected the claim, saying all she did, as “a matter of courtesy”, was send the party’s attorneys a copy of her draft papers which would have only been issued and served had the recall clause been invoked. The federal executive’s Natasha Mazzone said during the course of their discussions they had received legal papers from De Lille which advised that she intended to approach the courts. The executive held a meeting in Johannesburg to discuss De Lille’s response on why she should not be removed as mayor following the motion of no confidence by the DA’s City of Cape Town caucus. If the party had decided to uphold the motion against De Lille she would have had 48 hours to resign and if she had failed to do so, her membership would have to be revoked. She regarded the “De Lille Recall Clause” as “draconian and unconstitutional” and has stated she was prepared to test its validity “in the high courts if necessary”. “I dispute that the clause, as it currently stands, could be invoked against me since it cannot be applied retrospectively and there was no basis for FedEx giving the caucus permission to use the clause after it was adopted,” De Lille said. Mazzone said in a statement yesterday the deliberations on De Lille had been postponed to early next week after they received legal papers from her during the meeting. But De Lille said a “courtesy” had been extended to the party’s legal team since the clause, if invoked, would have required her to resign within 48 hours. “Any application made to the court would thus have to be done on an urgent basis and we wanted the party to be in a position to prepare to respond if necessary,” she said. The DA had said the motion of no confidence against De Lille was based on reasons including that she allegedly breached the code of conduct for councillors as well as the constitution of the party and had brought it into disrepute. De Lille said she had never been found guilty, following any due process of any of those allegations. She said her consistent demand was for all the allegations against her to be tested following an open, transparent and fair process that was consistent with the values of the party. “Despite my right to privacy, I have asked for those allegations to be tested in a hearing that is fully open to the public and the media. This request has been denied by the party. “I am disputing all of those allegations and I want the public, who elected me, to hear the evidence against me.” In her written submission to the DA on Wednesday she said she believed she had not been provided with examples of transgressions and dates and had the matter been properly considered, the federal executive would have wanted to know more details in order to assess the seriousness of the allegations as well as the dates of the transgressions in order to ensure that there was not an attempt to apply the clause retroactively.