Blac Chyna wants the money Kylie Jenner was paid for 'Life of Kylie'. The 29-year-old model believes she is owed the money the 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians' star was paid for her reality television series because 'Life of Kylie' took up the slot on E!'s network schedule when Chyna's series 'Rob & Chyna' was cancelled. According to The Blast, court documents filed by Chyna state: "The money paid to defendants for their services on 'Life of Kylie' was acquired through the unlawful means of intentionally interfering with her contract for a second season of 'Rob & Chyna.'" Meanwhile, Chyna recently claimed that her ex-partner Rob Kardashian - with whom she shares daughter Dream - asked personally for 'Rob and Chyna' not to be cancelled. Court documents submitted by Chyna claims that the second season of the show began filming in early 2017, despite the paperwork having not been finished. The lawsuit states: "Reality television thrives on colourful personalities engaging in conflict. If anything, the E! network saw more potential in a second season given the success of season one and the new, unpredictable co-parenting relationship between Chyna and Rob." Chyna is currently fighting the Kardashian/Jenner clan in court after claiming they were conspiring to end her television show 'Rob and Chyna'. Accusing one unspecified member of the family, she claimed they had said "the show is giving this toxic woman money and exposure she lives and breathes for and by continuing it ... she will proceed with using and physically abusing my brother". Chyna had accused the family of trying to destroy her career. Her court documents stated: "The unwritten rule no one told (her) when she began her relationship with Kardashian is that the entire family will come after you if you leave, using their fame, wealth and power to take you down, including getting your television show cancelled (despite great ratings), spreading lies about you, and even funding a bogus lawsuit about a crumbled gingerbread house." Bang Showbiz