When the royal wedding of Prince Harry and US actress Meghan Markle takes place in St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle today, Rivett will join millions across the world raising a glass of Champagne to the young couple as they exchange vows in what promises to be a fairy-tale spectacle. Rivett, who grew up in Pietermaritzburg and Kloof, was the personal trainer to Princess Dianne between 1991 and 1997, and the pair enjoyed a close relationship. Speaking from Cambridge in the UK on Thursday, Rivett said the princess shared a “special bond” with her boys, princes William and Harry. “I feel ridiculously sad for Diana that she should be missing out on this momentous day. Her boys were her life and she would be so proud of Harry and I think she would really approve of Meghan. “She had a very special bond with her boys, and Harry certainly has Diana’s joie de vivre.” Rivett recalled when Prince Harry would gatecrash his mother’s fitness sessions at Kensington Palace, while both princes used to want to hold Rivett’s baby daughter, Kirsti. “William and Harry used to fight over who would hold Kirsti when I occasionally took her up to the palace. The boys were often in our sessions, wielding water pistols. She was such a great mom. “Today I would like to say many congratulations, Harry. I remember your passion for just about everything. Your mom would be so proud of you today, and keep up her good works.” And when it comes to the prince’s bride, . Rivett said: “I think Meghan is a great addition to the royal family. She’s gutsy and confident and has all the makings of a princess.” During her years as Princess Diana’s personal trainer, Rivett got to know her well, even accompanying her on a skiing trip. “We became very close and she shared almost everything with me. She often poured her heart out. I will always be incredibly loyal to her. She was kind, caring and compassionate with a wicked sense of humour,” she said. She added that when her brother was diagnosed with cancer in 1995, Princess Diana “immediately got her oncologist to make contact with his doctor in uMhlanga and they discussed the treatment. My brother survived.” When Princess Diana died in August 1997, Rivett said she walked around the gardens of Kensington Palace. “I saw the outpouring of grief and masses of flowers. I just looked up at the sky and said, ‘now do you believe how much people loved you?’” But today will be a time for celebration, said Rivett, who will be the guest of honour to an “if we were attending the wedding” lunch. “It includes dressing up for the big day, tea, champers, lunch”. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY