The area, on the corner of Jakes Gerwel and Highlands Drive in Mitchells Plain, was turned into a war zone this week when Siqalo residents went on the rampage in nearby Colorado Park, where they petrol-bombed an ATM and destroyed a fruit and vegetable store. On Wednesday evening, a resident was knocked over and killed by a taxi when the driver reportedly drove into a group of protesting Siqalo residents. According to De Lille, the city has been engaging with the owners of the land on which the informal settlement was built and with residents, but progress was being hampered by a court case involving the land. Read: WATCH: Man dies after taxi runs over him during #SiqaloProtest Associations vow to work together to find solutions to #SiqaloProtest #MitchellsPlain on edge after shootout at #SiqaloProtest According to court papers dating back to 2013 relating to a dispute between the landowners and the occupants of the land, the property was owned by Lyton Props and Ross Demolition. The Weekend Argus requested contact details from the mayor’s office and the mayoral committee member responsible for informal settlements, water and waste services and energy, Xanthea Limberg, to offer both companies the right of reply but no details were provided. De Lille, who was at the opening of the new municipal court in Lentegeur yesterday, told reporters the landowner was “playing games” and had put a condition of sale in place which had caused a snag. The mayor denied that the situation had been brewing for five years. The city had provided water, toilets and refuse collection services in the area but residents were demanding electricity as well. “We cannot buy disputed land. The owner is playing around with us,” said De Lille when asked what the city was doing to end the violence that flared in the area this week. The mayor said although the land was privately owned, the city had responded on humanitarian grounds by erecting water standpipes and providing portable toilets and refuse collection. De Lille indicated the city, residents and owners of the land would meet “within the next seven days”. Limberg said several senior officials and political leaders, including the local sub-council chairperson, Councillor Elton Janson, met community members from Siqalo on Wednesday. Limberg and the mayoral committee member for area south, Eddie Andrews, had met the Siqalo leaders to discuss the community’s grievances. Siqalo resident Monwabisi Futshane, however, painted a different picture. He told the Weekend Argus that residents had voiced their unhappiness from 2012. The Weekend Argus visited the area on Friday and observed the conditions under which the Siqalo residents lived. Standpipes and portable toilets have been erected in one section of the informal settlement and residents have to walk in the dark to use the ablution facilities and collect water. “Women are not safe at night. They have complained about the chemicals in the toilets causing infection. Children are not safe. Even the men are not safe; nobody is safe,” said Futshane. He also pointed out the swarms of flies gathered around the portable toilets across from where food vendors prepare their wares, the dead rats and faeces on the sand roads. “They are playing hide and seek. We met with Ross, the owner of the land, two weeks ago and Ross said the city can buy the land,” said Futshane. Futshane claims they protested many times before and met De Lille last year when she visited C-Section. Futshane said: “We are fed up. Protesting is our last option. This is the only way they take us seriously. It is not the residents that are responsible for the violence, it’s opportunists”. According to Futshane, residents were scheduled to have a meeting with DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela and Limberg this afternoon at the Lentegeur municipal office. Meanwhile, the Weekend Argus is in possession of several voice notes wherein people, claiming to be from Mitchells Plain, can be heard hurling racial insults and threatening physical violence against Siqalo residents. Mayenzeke Shinte, 55, has been living in the informal settlement since it sprang up in 2012. Shinte said he lived in the heart of the wetland which often flooded when it rained. “We have no services, we have no electricity, no toilets, we have nothing except a few taps which are very far. They are at the entrance of the settlement.” “Imagine coming home from a construction job which you have been at since the early hours of the day. You come home and you still need to carry buckets of water, it is too much and the people across the road who are saying we must go back to where we came from should put themselves in our shoes,” he said. Weekend Argus