But the education sector is still concerned about the practice of “progressing” pupils who have not met the minimum requirements and the effects it has on the standard of education. Pupils receive a “progress”  to the next grade if they have already failed once in a  phase. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the concept of progressing pupils who have not met the necessary requirements to pass and who have already repeated a grade in that phase came into practice in 2012. “This is a national policy and therefore we are required to implement it. There is ongoing conversation about the merits of the policy and how learners’ interests are best met through this policy.” She also said there seemed to be a definite improvement in the level of education across the board. “Improved results in poor schools reflect our commitment to transformation and improving opportunities for all learners. Results in poor primary schools are steadily catching up with high-performing schools, according to our systematic tests. “Matric results are showing steady improvements in high schools serving poor communities.” She said that although there was a disparity between no-fees schools, which are quintile 1 to 3, versus schools in quintile 4 and 5, which are fee-paying, lower quintiles are showing growth in their results. “Various studies show that the Western Cape is showing the greatest progress in transforming education in poor communities. While the Western Cape has taken the lead in improving opportunities for poor learners, we still have a long way to go.” Based on the systemic tests results, the gap between previously advantaged and disadvantaged schools was closing, said Hammond. “For instance, in Grade 3 and 6 mathematics in the systemic tests, quintile 2 schools performed better than quintile 4. “There is, however, still a long way to go in terms of eradicating the gap altogether. “We are cognisant of this and therefore have targeted programmes in these schools in order to improve results.” Hammond said the department’s main priority was to “improve learner performance in language and mathematics”. “These subjects provide the foundation needed for all learning. The WCED has conducted systemic tests since 2002 to assess the language and mathematics skills of primary school children. The results tell us exactly what we have to do to improve performance in language and mathematics.” She said they used the data to plan “remedial interventions” on all levels. “These interventions have helped reduce the gap between high-performing and low-performing schools by about 25% according to research, which is internationally significant.” However, she said there were no quick-fixes. “At the same time, we have to hold all role-players to account to ensure systemic improvement on all levels. This includes political principals, senior officials, district and circuit managers, principals, school management teams and teachers.” She added: “Poor results are an indictment of the system as a whole and we have to work together to ensure that we give all children every possible opportunity to flourish and to realise their potential.” Mark Fairbairn, acting principal of Spine Road High School in Mitchells Plain, a maths- and science-focused school that has managed to achieve top results in spite of the odds, said he was not in agreement with the progression system of pushing children over to the next grade. “Progression makes the pupils believe they don’t need to work hard and they will still move to the next grade. It makes them think they can achieve success without working hard. We definitely believe this should be phased out.” He said this behaviour rubbed off on other children who then followed suit. The progression of pupils usually sparked disciplinary issues in the class, he added. In spite of this, he said Spine Road High had managed to keep its progression numbers low at only 5% of the pupils in each grade being progressed every year. Dr Nic Spaull, a senior researcher in the Economics Department at Stellenbosch University, agrees that progressing pupils to the next grade when they haven’t acquired the necessary skills in that grade isn’t ideal. “But we also know that repeating a grade and getting the exact same input as the first time around doesn’t do any good. Repetition in dysfunctional schools doesn’t help anyone and it’s costly. This is one of the reasons for the progression policy.” However, he said remedial support would provide the best results for children who were not learning the basics. He said that according to the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study of 2016, 78% of Grade 4 pupils couldn’t read at a basic level and 66% of Grade 5 pupils couldn’t do basic maths. “So much of this is about the teachers. We haven’t given our teachers meaningful learning opportunities to learn what they need to know to teach in the contexts we’re asking them to teach in,” said Spaull.