To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “It was a totally unexpected shock that scared me and made my blood run cold,” said Johannesburg mother of two, Dina Carvalho, describing the traumatic experience at Glen Afric, a South African wild animal farm used for filming productions like Top Gear and and several Leon Schuster movies. “Gerald was behind a flimsy fence. He looked aggressive and paced up and down, up and down and then stopped several times and pushed against the fence, almost like he wanted to get at me. “But I wanted to feel what my husband must have faced in those last terrifying seconds of his life. I wanted to get in touch with his last encounter with this world, so I paced with Gerald, whose size and height was overwhelming. “The whole time we paced, Gerald never took his eyes off me. So I just stared back at his restless eyes and the horns that killed Carlos, thinking about that awful moment he struck my husband. I felt numb, defiant and incredibly sad all at the same time.” Carvalho’s courageous face-off with Gerald on Thursday came after spending several emotionally draining hours on the set of Premium Nanny 2, listening to film crew and a Glen Afric wrangler give blow-by-blow accounts of how Gerald killed her award-winning husband Carlos, 47, last Wednesday. At one stage, she broke down at the spot where her husband was smashed across the head and sent flying four metres through the air. Carvalho landed in a crumpled heap and a few hours later, he was declared dead at Johannesburg’s Milpark Hospital after succumbing to extensive facial and skull fractures and severe brain injuries. Despite Carvalho’s brutal death, which has traumatised crew members, Cape Town-based Two Oceans Productions did not halt shooting the German movie and even continued filming while Carvalho toured the set. “When I stood where Carlos lay dying, listening to how Gerald had circled him and his unit, I was struck by how vulnerable and unprotected he must have been,” she said. “Looking through the viewfinder with his head down must have interfered with his perception of the approaching danger. He couldn’t have realised that this huge wild animal that he had filmed before was closing in on him.” A dreadful phone call, made not by those at the set, but by his CallaCrew employment agency - over an hour after the attack and once he had been airlifted - “completely shattered” Carvalho and her young children. “We are all struggling to cope. What’s made it even harder to bear is reading all the allegations, from Glen Afric and Two Oceans Productions, in the media that Carlos was being a cowboy and filming unauthorised and that he even called the giraffe towards his unit. They blamed Carlos from the word go and that’s been really difficult to swallow while we mourn. “Glen Afric told journalists that Carlos ‘got in Gerald’s face’ and was trying ‘to prove a point’. Besides being incredibly callous, nothing could be further from the truth. My husband was a quiet, gentle and reverent man widely respected in the film business. He didn’t get to be a top director of photography by being 
reckless. “The facts, as I’ve heard them from eyewitnesses, are that Carlos was sent by his director to get some wide, scenic 
shots. “Glen Afric animal wranglers left Gerald unattended and (he) was allowed to attack my husband even after the animal wrangler was radioed by Carlos’s unit director to remove Gerald when he suddenly appeared out of the bush. “Tragically, no one called me to Carlos’s side even though he lay dying in his own blood for over an hour before he was evacuated to hospital. “So why they blame Carlos is absolutely incomprehensible and cruel,” she said. Located 64km north of Johannesburg, Glen Afric is better known in the movie business as Brookers Farm, a popular filming location for hundreds of international movies and TV shoots for the last 40 years. It is owned by British expat John Brooker, whose life story is partly mirrored in the popular ITV series, Wild At Heart. Shot entirely at Brookers, the UK show ran for seven series, from January 2006 to December 2012. Carlos Carvalho had won a number of awards since he began his career as a runner in 1992 - a Silver Lion at the Cannes Film Festival in 2003 for a public service announcement for Childline, a 2014 African Movie Academy Cinematography Award and the Haskell Wexler Award for Best Cinematography at the 14th Woodstock Film Festival Maverick Awards Gala in New York for The Forgotten Kingdom.