The couple kissed on the steps of St George’s Chapel before climbing into a 19th century open horse-drawn carriage  for a tour of the town of Windsor, where tens of thousands of cheering well-wishers crammed the streets. Harry and Meghan were pronounced husband and wife at the chapel in the medieval Windsor Castle by Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby. Their glittering union brings a measure of modern Hollywood glamour into the monarchy, reflected in a ceremony that combined modernity and the ancient rituals of a royal house that traces its line back to 1066. Markle entered the chapel unescorted, dressed in a flowing white wedding gown created by British designer Clare Waight Keller and wearing a veil and diamond tiara. Prince Charles, heir to the throne and Harry’s father, accompanied Markle to the altar from the middle of the chapel, with her father too ill to attend. Harry, looking nervous, appeared to say, “Thanks Pa” to Charles and “You look amazing!” to his beaming bride. Markle’s mother, Doria Ragland, 61, shed tears. A gospel choir sang US soul singer Ben E King’s 1960s hit Stand By Me. “There’s power in love,” black US bishop Michael Bruce Curry told a congregation that included Queen Elizabeth, senior royals and celebrities such as US mogul Oprah Winfrey and former soccer star David Beckham. “Do not underestimate it. Anyone who has ever fallen in love knows what I mean,” Curry said in an energetic, passionate address in which he quoted US civil rights campaigner Martin Luther King. Alongside tradition, there was innovation, by British royal standards. Markle, 36, did not vow to obey her husband; Harry, three years her junior, will wear a wedding ring - unlike other senior male royals. To some Britons, the marriage of a senior member of the royal family to a divorcee whose mother is African-American and father is white embodies a modern Britain where race or background are no bar to even the most elite and traditional of institutions. To others, it was an irrelevance or a mild distraction from the schism of Brexit, which has deeply divided the UK; polls suggested that most Britons would not bother tuning in. But in Windsor, 20 km west of London, tens of thousands of fans lined the Long Walk promenade leading to the castle, waving British flags and cheering. Air traffic controllers for the nearby Heathrow Airport closed the airspace over the town for the 15 minutes before the ceremony. Hours before, Queen Elizabeth had bestowed the title of Duke of Sussex on her grandson, a step that meant Markle, star of the TV drama Suits, became a duchess when she married him. Other celebrity wedding guests included tennis ace Serena Williams, the siblings of Harry’s late mother Princess Diana, Elton John, who sang at Diana’s 1997 funeral, and two of Harry’s ex-girlfriends. The chapel was garlanded with white roses, Diana’s favourite flowers. The royal couple, who met on a blind date in 2016 and fell in love in a tent under the stars in Botswana, tied the knot in a castle that has been home to 39 English monarchs since 1066. Markle’s own father Thomas Markle, 73, a former lighting director for TV programmes, pulled out of the ceremony this week, telling the US celebrity website TMZ he had had heart surgery on Wednesday. Confusion over his attendance marred the build-up to the wedding, which had been choreographed for months by royal aides, and his name was still present in the order of service. After watching the ceremony from California, he told TMZ: “My baby looks beautiful and she looks very happy. I wish them all my love and all happiness.” - Reuters