The answer is the art of toastmasters, which teaches people to speak with confidence, develop their leadership skills and improve the way they communicate. A toastmaster is a person who proposes toasts, makes public and formal announcements and does emcee work. On Wednesday, professionals from Toastmasters International and recruits gathered at the Milnerton Bowling Club for the “gateway meeting” to the Icon 2018 conference, a competition organised for participants from the southern Africa region. The conference started at Lagoon Beach on Thursday and ends tomorrow. There will be contests on table topics, evaluation and international speech. The winner will book a place at a Toastmasters competition to be held later this year in Chicago. At the meeting this week, toastmasters displayed gusto as they relayed stories that boosted their confidence and spurred them on to become better speakers. The recruits soaked up the experience of the professionals, some of whom were from different countries in the southern Africa region. Will Scott, the vice-
president of the Table View Toastmasters, has been a toastmaster for nine months. He said he joined the organisation to further his burgeoning public speaking career and learn leadership skills. “You learn very quickly with Toastmasters. You learn how to interact with people and what their reactions will be. I’m very honoured to have been recruited right off the bat,” he said. Gina Roper, the president 
of the Table View Toastmasters, said her club had grown 
exponentially over the past few years, a testimony that toastmasters were more relevant than ever before. “Toastmasters is a wonderful experience for anyone who wants to communicate better.It’s not just about public speaking. It doesn’t matter whether you do it with your family, friends or to a thousand people, the ability to communicate is essential,” said Roper. “Toastmasters is a non-profit organisation and everyone is welcome.” The sub-Saharan countries in the Toastmasters International are known as District 74. Andrew Tsuro, a toastmaster, said the southern Africa region faced a water and leadership crisis because of poor communication and a lack of leadership. “Toastmasters is where leadership skills are made,” he said. “Toastmasters allows us to build relationships so that we can learn our interpersonal skills (and) strategic thinking so that we are able to plan for the future and avoid disasters like droughts. “Toastmasters allows us to build confidence,” Tsuro said.