The shootings began on Friday in Wynberg where a 28-year-old man was shot in Morom Road. Police confirmed that two suspects, aged 39 and 45, were arrested in Gugulethu and two unlicensed firearms were seized following the shooting. In Nyanga, two taxi drivers were shot and killed and another man was killed, while in Philippi East the violence intensified when six men were shot and killed with a further two wounded. Congress for Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta) spokesperson Andile Khanyi called for an end to the taxi violence. “Within Codeta there is no fighting, so we don’t know why these killings keep on happening. “I got a phone call to say that one of our guys was killed,” said Khanyi. “We are waiting for police to come and speak to us. We’re willing to work with them to end this violence. “We’re going to call our members in the meantime and tell them to be very careful about where they go,” Khanyi said. South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) secretary-general Vernon Billet condemned the killings. “We need to catch the people behind taxi killings and lock them up. It can’t go on like this and we will obviously work with the City and SAPS,” he said. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said a tactical response and national intervention unit had been deployed at the areas they have identified as hot spots. “Detectives are following up on all possible leads, but there are no arrests yet,” Rwexana said. She added that emergency meetings with the transport sector, the City, traffic services, police and other law enforcement agencies were under way in an effort to determine the source of the violent incidents. Earlier in the week Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant considered closing the Delft taxi rank to prevent further violence after Delft Taxi Association chairperson Nazeem Daniels was shot dead at the rank on Monday. In the previous week, three taxi drivers were killed in taxi violence in Delft. The police arrested two people in connection with the shootings. There are other issues here, and a number of taxi operators have seen an increase in the number of people who take taxis in the Western Cape and they have come in and want to protect their turf. “These killings are absolutely linked,” said Grant. “I’ve been in touch with SAPS and those that were in the meetings, including Dan Plato (Community Safety MEC), and it’s an absolutely unprecedented level of violence. “We condemn the latest killings,” he said. Grant added that illegal taxis and firearms found at taxi ranks would be impounded and confiscated. He said he would wait for the findings of an inquiry into the Delft and Nyanga taxi ranks to be released before making a decision on whether to close either taxi rank.