SA Transport and Allied Workers Union spokesperson Zanele Sabela said an offer was made by the SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council (Sarpbac) at on Thursday’s meeting. “We will not be disclosing the contents until we have reported back to our members,” she said. ALSO READ - #BusStrike: Union rejects pay offer to bus drivers Sabela said the five unions involved in the negotiations would hold a press conference at 3pm in Johannesburg today. Transport Omnibus Workers Union spokesperson Chris Fredericks said the offer looked positive, but said he could only comment once members had agreed. Sarpbac general secretary Gary Wilson said the negotiations were conducted in a good spirit and he was hopeful that the matter would soon be resolved. “Both parties understood the importance of getting things done. “We are hopeful that the offer would be accepted in the same spirit by the members,” he said. The unions are expected to get back to Sarpbac at 1pm, said Wilson, after concluding their mandate. “We will hear then whether buses will be available on Saturday or Monday." The bus strike which has been crippling hundreds of thousands of commuters started on April 18, after three months of unsuccessful negotiations. READ MORE - #BusStrike: Pay hike to impact fares, bosses warn Interventions in the negotiations by Transport Minister Blade Nzimande and Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant were unsuccessful. Earlier this week, Sarpbac and the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration of 8.75% and 8.25% for the next two years. This offer was rejected by unions, who demanded 9% and 8.5% increase for 2018 and 2019 respectively. Bus drivers have been striking on a “no work, no pay” basis. Golden Arrow Bus Services said the strike was jeopardising the future of the bus industry. “As the strike continues into its third week, one bus company has gone into business rescue and a second major company has agreed not to vote in the bargaining process as their only chance of remaining viable is dependent on being exempt from whatever increases are ultimately agreed to, no matter what,” Golden Arrow said in a press statement. @Zoey_Dano  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus