De Lille and the DA have been embroiled in a fight for over a year, with the party terminating her membership two weeks ago, which led to the matter being challenged in court. Sources said that although the names of possible successors have been put forward, the party was keeping mum on a preferred candidate. The DA caucus in the City will put forward a name to the party’s federal executive committee and, if approved, it will be tabled before the council for election and approval. According to political analyst Daniel Silke, the party needed to resolve the issue with De Lille first, so that a new mayor  could be elected to restore the party’s credibility and support. “The person will have to have the right combination of personality and delivery ability and appeal to the historical support base of the party,” Silke said. He said the position was partly personality-driven as political campaigns were built around this, but the incumbent would also need to be able to drive service delivery in Cape Town. Other strengths important for the position, he said, were good communication skills, charisma and integrity. “De Lille appealed to most voters - it will be difficult to fill her position. If they can find the right person, they will have to be in tune with people on the ground,” Silke added. Deputy mayor Ian Nielson acted as mayor for a few days following De Lille’s expulsion, and was ready to elect and announce a mayoral executive committee. However, some sources believe he will probably only be in the position for a short time. DA  Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela confirmed that the party had 
suffered “some harm” because of the saga and had lost 
some support. He said although the party had won recent by-elections in various wards across the province, support had decreased but no opposition parties had picked up those votes. Madikizela said the party wanted to restore stability in the council and was working on engaging with the electorate to regain its trust. The political saga within the party also brought to the fore the importance of the mayoral executive committee, which is elected by the mayor, in line with legislation. Speculation was rife last week that Nielson would replace some committee members who were close to De Lille. However, the committee was reinstated following the ruling by the Western Cape High Court. According to Ivor Sarakinsky from Wits University’s School of Governance, a seat in the mayoral committee holds the same status as that of a minister in national government and an MEC at provincial government level. “They are political heads of departments - they carry enormous power, and if they want to restructure the existing one, that would present a case study,” Sarakinsky said. He also believed that the battle between De Lille and the DA could drag on for a while if appeals by either party were launched after a court decision was made. “When politicians try to short-circuit a process, they open things up to future bottlenecks, objections, and shoot themselves in the foot,” Sarakinsky added. He cautioned that the party could not take away the mayoral powers and shift them to the DA caucus as this would be contrary to the legislation governing the running of municipalities. “It could be contested at a range of levels. The national constitution is clear on that,” Sarakinsky said. Political analyst Keith Gottschalk said the party had legitimate reasons to be concerned about the allegations of mismanagement as the City could not afford what had happened to other municipalities such as Oudtshoorn. “The town was paralysed by a hung council and had no mayor for a year. Corrupt officials stole money until Oudtshoorn could no longer afford to repair potholes in roads,” he said. The DA recently leaked a SMS allegedly sent by De Lille to a mayoral committee member in which she allegedly asked to score a certain job candidate higher for the position of municipal manager. De Lille hit back, saying the SMS was shared during “pillow talk” between the mayoral committee executive members - ‘power couple’ Xanthea Limberg and JP Smith. “The presence or absence of a romantic relationship between mayoral committee members is not relevant to the truth or falsity of the allegation that 
De Lille sent the SMS,” said Gottschalk. He added that the need for disclosure of such a relationship in the public interest must be balanced against the need to avoid what feminists call “slut-shaming” - a term used against women politicians. However, Sarakinsky said it had yet to be proven whether the candidate, who later resigned, got the job as a result of a majority vote. “No one else has come forward with evidence and the question that needs to be asked is whether the SMS was a serious sustained attempt to influence or used in lobbying which is done openly in some sectors. “The issues of transparency and accountability are very important.”