Captain Nqobile Gwala, a police spokesperson, said that many homeowners were being robbed by people who posed as municipal workers, repairmen, beggars and people seeking work. “We are appealing to community members to always make sure they do not allow strangers on to their premises without identifying the person. They should also not employ people without conducting proper background checks,” she said. Police said they remained concerned over the rate of house robberies in the province and have established initiatives to address the spate of trio crimes (murder, house robberies and business robberies). Some of the most recent incidents included a woman who was bludgeoned to death during a home invasion at her Northdene home on Monday. A man was shot dead during a botched hijacking, and a father and son were shot and injured during a home robbery in two separate incidents in Chatsworth on Sunday. In Malvern last week, armed robbers shot and wounded a 57-year-old at her home. This was just days after a family just a road away was also held up. Haden Searles, chairman of the Durban North /Umhlanga CPF said: “In a few places, we’ve had two house robberies reported in one day, sometimes within minutes of each other.” Malvern CPF chairperson Anthony Pillay said home invasions and house robberies had been fairly quiet until about two weeks ago. “But within two weeks it has picked up suddenly.” Umesh Singh, chairperson of the Phoenix CPF and eThekwini Outer North Cluster, said they believed that with daylight fading earlier as winter approached, opportunistic criminals were looking for unlocked doors and open gates. Jakes Singh, chairperson of the Chatsworth CPF, said the increased incidents in Chatsworth must be seen in the context of its increased households, as the community now also incorporated Bottlebrush, Welbedacht East and West, Burlington and Lusaka informal settlements. “A big problem is that residents are too trusting and invite anyone into their home, like street hawkers. We have a particular problem with “Sugar Boys”. “These people come around selling items. But when you invite them in they check out your yard and your security. When they are inside, they note the items of value,” said Singh. CPFs have urged people to join their local forum, neighbourhood watch and related WhatsApp groups. Daily News