The attack occurred at about 5pm on Wednesday while director of photography Carlos Carvalho, 47, a Johannesburg father of two, was shooting scenes for a German movie on a North West game farm. He later died in hospital. “I was standing right next to Carlos when the giraffe suddenly swung its neck and hit him on his head above his ear and sent him flying about 4-5m through the air,” said focus puller Drikus van der Merwe, who was filming on Glen Afric Broederstroom farm 64km from Johannesburg. Gerald’s killer blow came without warning said Van Der Merwe, who had shot giraffe scenes with Carvalho earlier in the day without incident. Then while their second unit was shooting their final scene, Gerald emerged from the bushes. “He started chasing the boom swinger who joined our unit,” said Van Der Merwe. “The giraffe followed him but we didn’t feel threatened because he just seemed to be inquisitive.” As a precaution, Van Der Merwe said the unit’s assistant director radioed the farm’s animal wrangler, Vicky Brooker, to alert her that Gerald was wandering around unattended. He requested her assistance “to get rid of him”. In the meantime because Gerald seemed unthreatening, said Van Der Merwe, “we started shooting close-ups of its body and its feet. Then while Carlos was looking through the camera eyepiece, Gerald swung his neck and hit him against his head. It came out of nowhere and Carlos didn’t even see it coming. He wasn’t aware of the danger.” Carvalho lay on the ground until the on-set paramedic arrived. “I could see he was unconscious,” said Van der Merwe. “There was blood coming out of his eyes and ears so I knew he had a severe head trauma. But I never thought he would die.” It took about 45 minutes for the first ambulance to arrive and another 15 minutes for a medical rescue helicopter to land, said Van Der Merwe. Once stabilised, the critically injured Carvalho was airlifted to Johannesburg’s Milpark Hospital, where he died from head injuries at about 9pm. A stunned Van der Merwe said he unwittingly captured the last photos of Carvalho alive. “About 5 minutes before he got hit Carlos gave me his phone and asked me to take some photos of him on the rig for his kids. He was talking so highly of them and his wife. I feel so sorry for them.” Saying Carvalho had ignored a safety briefing not to approach any animal without an animal wrangler, Glen Afric spokesperson Jenny Brooker said he had “got in Gerald’s face”. “He was unauthorised to film. He went off on his own. He wanted to get some shots to prove a point” Gerald was not to blame and would not be put down, said Brooker. “We are not going to shoot Gerald. He was not in the wrong. I don’t consider him to be a dangerous animal.” She said unlike Shamba the lion, who had been shot on another South African game farm after mauling his British owner Mike Hodge on Monday, Gerald the giraffe showed “no animosity, no malicious intent”. “The guy disobeyed safety regulations. I’m very sad for his family. But I’m not one of those people who blames the animals.” Carvalho won a number of awards since he began his career as a runner in 1992. They included a Silver Lion at the Cannes Film Festival in 2003 for a public service announcement for Childline and a 2014 African Movie Academy Cinematography Award for his work on The Forgotten Kingdom. Tourists can walk with and feed wild animals at Glen Afric, but it is better known in the movie business as Brookers Farm, a popular filming location for hundreds of international movie and TV shoots for the past 40 years. Gerald had featured in about 30 film shoots without incident, said Brooker, and this was the first fatality in 40 years of movie-making on the farm. A number of Leon Schuster movies were shot there including his latest movie which has yet to be released.