It was reported that an emotional Prince Harry told Markle ‘‘you look amazing’’ after she wafted down the aisle in the classic silk gown in pure white, with a 4.5-metre veil embroidered with flowers of the Commonwealth. Markle's veil was reportedly made from silk tulle with a trim of hand-embroidered flowers in silk threads and organza. Her look was completed by a Cartier bracelet and earrings and a Queen Mary diamond bandeau tiara loaned to her by the queen. Markle chose acclaimed British designer Clare Waight Keller, 48, the first female artistic director at the historic French fashion house Givenchy, to design her dress after a meeting early this year. She was understood to have been impressed by Waight Keller’s timeless, elegant, impeccable tailoring and relaxed demeanour and wanted to highlight the success of a leading British talent who has now served as the creative head of three globally influential fashion houses - Pringle of Scotland, Chloé and now Givenchy. The pair worked together on the design, with Waight Keller carrying out  extensive research at fabric mills throughout Europe to develop an exclusive double-bonded silk cady especially for Markle. The pair decided it was perfect for the round sculptural look required while the soft matt lustre, bonding process and pure white colour brought a fresh modernity to the dress. Markle, who is now known as the Duchess of Sussex, was eager to incorporate a nod to all 53 countries of the Commonwealth into her special day, and asked for a veil embellished with the distinctive flora of each Commonwealth country united in a single spectacular floral composition. She chose two personal favourite flowers to be featured on the veil. One was wintersweet (Chimonanthus praecox), which grows in the grounds of Kensington Palace in front of Nottingham Cottage, and the California poppy (Eschscholzia californica), the state flower of her place of birth, California. Symmetrically placed at the very front of the veil, crops of wheat were delicately embroidered into the flora to symbolise love and charity. - Daily Mail