The move comes as the Western Cape High Court is expected to deliver judgment on whether ousted mayor Patricia De Lille will return to her position temporarily.  There’s mounting concern about the efficiency of the City,  the second largest metro in the country. Tomorrow the ANC caucus in the council is to  hold a meeting to formalise its request to the national minister of co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), Zweli Mkhize for urgent intervention and to put the city under administration. The leader of the ANC in the Council, Xolani Sotashe, said there was no political direction and leadership after the DA terminated De Lille’s membership, and her position as mayor on Tuesday. The Cope’s representative, Farouk Cassim said he supported the call but said the move should only be effected after the court’s ruling on De Lille’s urgent application to suspend the DA’s decision. The court reserved judgment on Friday and was urged by legal representatives to make an urgent ruling on the matter. It also interdicted the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) from declaring a vacancy in the council. This means that the acting mayor Ian Nielsen, cannot appoint a new mayco. Sotashe said the council was currently operating on “auto-pilot” and lacked  “political leadership”  to ensure stability but was expected to adopt a budget for the 2018/19 financial year on May 30. “The Mayco is supposed to endorse the budget prior to its approval. It can’t be endorsed by the acting mayor and the speaker alone - that would be illegal. It would be tantamount to running the council as a spaza shop,” Sotashe said. He also cited financial “mismanagement”, the failure to spend government grants on key projects including improving the lives of the poor as among the reasons that the minister should consider in placing the council under administration. Sotashe said the draft budget proposed a borrowing of billions of rands to help with projects, largely related to the water-augmentation schemes. Sotashe said the DA  caucus had tried to distance itself from the proposed budget, insinuating that it was a De Lille one after opposition grew to the proposed tariff hikes but it had approved it before it was brought to the council. Cassim warned that if the court matter was not settled within the next seven days, there were no prospects of passing the budget. “It would be anomalous if the current situation is left to prevail. There’s one man, the acting mayor to make decisions. How many decisions can he make,” Cassim said. He also said the City, with an estimated 4 million citizens, could not be left in limbo and could not be allowed to go on drifting. The City is yet to know who its real mayor is. The question before the court is what should happen in the interim. The DA  argued that De Lille was no longer a party member, councillor and mayor and through the interim relief she sought to reverse the status quo. De Lille’s legal representative argued that her membership cessation, based on an interview she had with Cape Talk,  was “unconstitutional” and unprocedural. Advocate Dali Mpofu, for De Lille, argued that the DA was not consistent in dealing with matters pertaining to its members and had not terminated membership of its leader Mmusi Maimane, Diane Kohler-Barnad and others who had made similar utterances as
De Lille. In fact, the party sent its senior leaders to beg the DA Eastern Cape chairperson after she resigned from the party amid tensions with the then provincial leader. The court will also weigh prejudice that could be suffered by the parties, De Lille, the DA and the citizens of Cape Town if De Lille’s application for interm relief was not granted. Advocate Sean Rosenberg, for the DA, argued the party would suffer if De Lille who was returned as mayor. “De Lille will not suffer irreparable harm that can justify interim relief. Losing her job is not irreparable. To the extent that she is concerned about her salary, financial prejudice is not regarded as the type of irreparable harm that cannot be found in interim relief,” he told the court. Mpofu told the court that an interim relief was sought to deal with whether the Deputy mayor, Nielsen, may act as mayor and if the dissolved Mayco could be reconstituted in five weeks, when the full matter was heard. “Some may have moved to other positions. The members of the new Mayco may be prejudiced if they are to be removed in five weeks. “The disruption and delays in decision-making will be invariably caused by a grand scale purge of the Mayor and her Mayco,” Mpofu argued. De Lille said she still regarded herself as mayor until the court  rules on the matter. “I have put my faith in the judiciary. I am concerned about the effect of the latest move on service delivery. “The people of Cape Town have not lost confidence in me. It’s only some DA councillors,” she added.