CAPE TOWN - An email which was sent to Business Report claiming that Multichoice is running a competition and is awarding selected lucky winners R950 000 in cash back as a reward to their customers is in fact a scam, according to Multichoice. The email says: “Dear MultiChoice Customer, Congratulations, your email was automatically selected in the ongoing raffle draw winning pot. please find attached for more information”. A letter which is attached to the email then details the specifics of the competition.  According to the letter, Multichoice has over 100 million customers. The letter then goes on to say that Multichoice is giving out a Gift Card to the value of R950 000 as a cash back rewards to all their selected customers in order to encourage active users of Multichoice. The gift card can be used to withdraw money at any ATM machine in the country and it can also be used to make payments at any outlet that accepts credit cards, visa cards or Mastercards. The letter further states that the winning numbers fall into the African collection region. Lastly, as a “precautionary means” to avoid double claiming and unwarranted abuse of the program, recipients are then prompted to fill in their personal details such as their date of birth, occupation and full residential address in order to claim their prize. In order claim your prize, you are also asked to contact the Multichoice award claims Manager, Brenda. Business Report then followed up on this by contacting Brenda. Upon answering the phone, Business Report enquired which department Brenda worked for and the name of her Manager. Brenda then said her manager is Keri and failed to answer further questions, hanging up the line. In an attempt to clarify whether the competition was, in fact, legitimate Business Report contacted Multichoice directly. According to a Multichoice spokesperson, the logos on the letter are not from Multichoice and neither does a person by the name of Brenda work for the company. READ ALSO: DStv hikes up their prices ALSO READ: This is how strict regulations are for Netflix, DSTV TOP STORY: Steinhoff shares get a major boost - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE