Cape Town - One of the celebrity guests at Killarney International Raceway's Moonlight Dog Walk in aid of the in aid of the Cape Animal Welfare Forum, on the evening of Friday, 5 October, will be a small dog with a very big heart. Mr Miyagee is the ambassador of the Dare 2 Care Campaign, an 11 month old Chocolate Tri-Colour Longcoat Chihuahua who already has a history of courage, respect and unconditional love as a certified emotional support dog to a seven-year-old boy, and is training to become a therapy dog. He'll be taking part in his new branded buggy, with a prize hamper to give away to a lucky participant. This busy spokesdog, nicknamed Il Piccolo Cucciolo de Cioccolato (The little chocolate puppy) has become a public figure as an advocate against animal abuse and bullying in schools; he also enjoys taking part in dog shows, and doing reviews as a pet food, nutrition, wellness and accessory blogger. In 2019 he will be traveling to the Netherlands to spread the Dare 2 Care message internationally. All dogs are invited to take part in either a two-kilometre or three-kilometre walk, as long as they are neither ill, pregnant or aggressive - and they are welcome to bring their owners along, although they're advised to do the two-kilometre walk if they or their humans are elderly or suffering from respiratory complaints. The aim is to set a new record for the most dogs taking part in a mass walk on a motor racing circuit, ever, and the target is an ambitious one: a thousand dogs and their people all walking for a good cause, because every dog has to have a human on a leash - it's a rule. Each participating dog will receive woofy bag from Hill's, and there will also be live music, a kids' corner with pedal karts, a jungle gym and a jumping castle, food stalls, craft beer, cocktails and wine tasting on offer, in a people-friendly venue with lots of secure parking, so participating dogs can bring their whole human family. Even if you don't want to walk, be there for the buzz. Killarney's racing commentators will keep you laughing with their roving trackside interviews, you might spot a celebrity participant and you could even wind upon TV, because Expresso will be there filming the whole event. And on a more serious note, you will be able to have your pet microchipped for only R100. Humans are asked to bring water for their dogs – bowls will be provided, but there are water restrictions in place at the circuit – and to pick up off after their dogs, and use the bins provided. Paramedics, a vet and animal welfare inspectors will be on hand in case of emergency. The gate opens at 5pm, with registration from 5.30; and the walk will opened by Alderman JP Smith at 7.15pm. Entry is R60 per dog, and R30 per adult, with children under 16 free. Supplied Content Cape Argus