Cape Town - Helping the intellectually disabled become more confident and including them in society is what non-profit organisation Astra and Oasis Association prides itself in doing. Sara Lan, 26, who works at Astra’s coffee shop Coffee Time, said working there had given her the strength to find out who she really is and prove all those people who didn’t believe in her wrong. “All my teachers who thought I couldn’t do anything made me feel worthless and like I didn’t have a purpose in life. I have proved them wrong. I can do what I'm told I can’t do. I know what I want to do now. I want to become a barista or baker.” Lan went to the centre for guidance and at first, was not sure what she wanted to do there. In the past two years, Lan had gained confidence, said Melanie Shapiro, who is a social worker at the centre. At the centre, there are various departments in which they can work. There is painting, woodwork, needlework, weaving, catering and philately. Beautiful toys are crafted from wood, dolls made to perfection in the workshop, paintings that captivate your eyes, a gift shop for any occasion and a coffee shop with an aroma and view one could get lost in. This is a tranquil centre set in the city at 20 Breda Street. It also does birthday parties, anniversaries, weddings, bar mitzvahs, corporate events, memorials, team buildings and kiddies parties. Community members can support the centre by visiting the coffee shop, the gift shop and buying some of the garments. “We have a team of dedicated staff that provides counselling, life skills training and encouragement for growth in a nurturing and caring environment. Parent support and counselling is offered where necessary,” said Shapiro. The Oasis Special School was founded in 1952, providing education for learners with intellectual disabilities who were excluded from mainstream schooling. As the children grew older, there was the challenge of where they could work. The Oasis Protective Workshop was born. With the support of the Carl and Emily Fuchs Foundation and the Old Mutual Foundation, they have a bakery running at their Claremont site. Their goods are sold at their coffee shop. Julia Puma, 21, who is employed at the bakery, had come to work on her day off. When asked why, she said the place made her happy. The two group homes (in Ruyterwacht and Kenwyn) provide a caring home environment for 42 adults with intellectual disability, all of whom are employed at the Oasis workshops. Weekend Argus