The compromising video has since gone viral on social media, showing the minister engaging in a sexual act. The EFF has denied involvement, saying anyone with evidence must come forward and prove the party was behind the leak. Gigaba’s spokesperson Vuyo Mkhize tweeted yesterday: “The @mgigaba video was leaked by an opposition leader who obtained it from an MP of his party from Umzimkhulu who, in turn, obtained it from a guy who was previously implicated in the failed attempt to blackmail the minister all social media rumours to the contrary are false.” On Sunday, Gigaba, on Twitter, publicly apologised to the nation for the video, which he said was shot in 2016. He also turned to Twitter to apologise to his family and the nation for the embarrassing video. Mkhize, who confirmed posting the tweet, did not name the MP, the leader of the opposition party or the party they belong to. He said he would comment further only if there were developments. However, Independent Media established that EFF MP Marshal Dlamini is the only opposition MP from Umzimkhulu, in the eastern part of KwaZulu-Natal. It is believed the opposition leader Mkhize was referring to is EFF president Julius Malema, who is also the party’s leader in Parliament. IFP MP and spokesperson Mkhu- leko Hlengwa and DA KwaZulu-Natal leader Zwakele Mncwango said their parties did not have MPs from Umzimkhulu. However, Dlamini, who admitted being from Umzimkhulu and did not know any other opposition MP from the town, denied having anything to do with the leaked Gigaba video. Approached for comment, he said: “Why can’t you ask Vuyo Mkhize to give you the names? You cannot just harass us. You don’t know what you are talking about.” Dlamini said neither the police nor Gigaba’s lawyer had approached him. EFF deputy secretary-general Hlengiwe Hlophe-Mkhaliphi said the EFF would respond to the allegations only once Gigaba had named people involved in the leak. “This has nothing to do with us and Marshal. He (Mkhize) is talking nonsense. Since he has not named the EFF, we are just going to look at him (Gigaba) and not say anything,” said Hlophe-Mkhaliphi. Mkhize said on Sunday that Gigaba had learnt about the existence of the video soon after former president Jacob Zuma had appointed him finance minister. He said someone tried to extort R5million from Gigaba in exchange for the footage not being leaked. He said that on realising Gigaba would not pay the money, the extortionist demanded that Gigaba facilitate business opportunities with the government for him. Mkhize said Gigaba had reported the matter to the law enforcement authorities. Media reports yesterday revealed that the Inspector-General of Intelligence was investigating after Gigaba, in May, laid a complaint about the hacking of his cellphone last year. Advocate Jay Govender, legal adviser in the office of the inspector-general, confirmed that Gigaba had laid a complaint. Commenting on the investigation Gigaba yesterday tweeted: “Of course, knowing who did it, and why, will not erase the pain, but it may help save others from the same fate.” Reputation expert Solly Moeng said Gigaba was too compromised by the video to remain in the cabinet. He said the former ANC Youth League president should resign or President Cyril Ramaphosa should fire him so he could “deal with those private issues”, which included taking legal action against people who hacked his phone, extorted money from him and leaked the video to the public. Moeng said the government needed uncompromising ministers to help it to recover “from 10 years of state capture, our ailing economy and the country’s damaged reputation”.  bongani.hans@inl.co.za  The Mercury