DURBAN – Poison City Brewing, a Durban based beer company has created their own cannabis beer called The Poison Cannabis IPA and the Durban Poison Cannabis Lager. Poison City Brewing was launched in Durban in March 2015 and later that year the company began selling their brew. Graeme Bird and Andre Schubert are the founders of the company. The two initially wanted to open  bar and restaurant but after travelling abroad they chose to open a brewery. According to Schubert, the name of their company comes from a nickname that is given to Durban by people that run in the "alternative" crowd, Poison City. Their beer is available in many retail liquor stores including Spar Tops, Pick n Pay Liquor, Checkers and independent liquor stores. Product Poison City Brewing has 5 beers in their product line including the cannabis beer. The first beer that they made was called The Bird, name after one of its founders Graeme Bird. They also have beers called The Punk Rocker and The Other Bird. According to Schubert, they make special brews when they travel to festivals. The beers cost between R18 and R30. Cannabis beer The Poison Cannabis IPA is a limited edition beer that is only available at certain stores, through Yuppie Chef and the Poison City Brewing website. This limited edition has a higher percent of alcohol content. The cannabis beer is blended with hemp or Cannabis Sativa flavour instead of hops. Hops and hemp flavour, aroma and oils are similar because they come from the same family, Cannabicea. The other cannabis beer. Durban Poison Cannabis Lager is made for the mainstream market according to Schubert. There are no chances of getting high with this beer because it doesn't contain THC. According to Schubert, the beer company started selling the cannabis beer over a week ago. It is currently available in Durban, Johannesburg, Cape Town and in the Eastern Cape. Future plans The company is looking move into the international market including the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE