Cape Town - Two months after the death of co-author of the the book on alleged sexual abuse of young boys by a ring of former politicians, an announcement is expected to be made this week. Investigative journalist and co-author of The Lost Boys Of Bird Island, Chris Steyn has confirmed moves to make an announcement but would not give further details. However, it's understood that more damning information had been received from alleged victims following the release of the book in July. Former policeman and co-author, Mark Minnie was found dead on a small holding, outside Port Elizabeth early August with a gun shot to his head. In a letter found after he died of a gunshot wound, Minnie had written: “Chrissy, don’t give up now. You are almost home. No government officials preventing you from investigating this time round.” No arrests had been made so far in connection with Minnie's death Steyn said:  "We are still seeking answers to many unanswered questions. His death has the appearance of suicide, but the hallmarks of remote murder”. She confirmed that a further investigation into uncovering more information after the release of the book was ongoing. "I have not given up. And I will not give up. That is a commitment I make to every victim of child rape who fears that he/she will not be believed," Steyn said. Although Steyn could not reveal any information that could lead to the identification of possible victims, she said the had been "dramatic" developments that would make a good book. "But I am not planning on writing one. The information being collected now is in the pursuit of justice, not book sales". The Lost Boys of Bird Island contains chilling accounts of alleged sexual abuse of coloured teenagers by a ring including late, ex-South African Defence Force head, Magnus Malan, late businessman Dave Allen and late Environmental Affairs Minister, Mark Wiley. It claims that the boys were flown to Bird Island, outside Port Elizabeth, by military helicopters where they were allegedly sexually assaulted. Weekend Argus