Johannesburg - The court has thwarted Hot91.9FM’s bid to stop EFF members from visiting the station’s offices to demand personal information of its recently axed jock Sasha Martinengo. The station’s lawyers approached the Johannesburg South Gauteng High Court late on Thursday to file status quo order papers against the EFF, with its managing director Lloyd Madurai claiming they felt threatened after the party’s members came to the station offices twice this week. Their visits came hours after the radio station fired Martinengo on Tuesday for calling EFF leader Julius Malema a monkey live on-air. Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng said the court order cannot be issued in a secretive manner and that it needed to be issued directly to the EFF. “This is an extraordinary case. However, the order needs to be given directly to the respondent. The order will be issued and served to the respondent not later than October 5 at its official premises,” said Mokgoatlheng. The order may be issued by a judge to prevent any of the parties involved in a dispute from taking any action until the matter can be resolved. EFF members recently protested outside the residence of Adam Catzavelos following the circulation of his racist video while on vacation in Greece in which he used the k-word. Madurai said the order was to seek peace and protection from threats and intimidation of staff, damage to premises as well as equipment which amounts to about R4million after he allegedly received two intimidating visits from EFF members. “The man requested to talk to me and I was open. He came in, requesting personal details of Martinengo and I explained to him that Martinengo had been dismissed and he said I made a good decision otherwise there would have been dire consequences. I explained that I could not issue any personal details,” said Madurai. “Also, his WhatsApp display picture shows him holding a rifle so I am intimidated,’’ he added. He also said that the radio station was a community station and as a result, a lot of people were suffering from the unrest taking place as they could not carry out their usual drives and donations. Also, the office park where the station is situated, houses 1500 people from different companies whose lives were also at risk. Led by its provincial chairperson Mandisa Mashego, EFF has since opened a criminal case against Martinengo. Mashego could not be reached for comment on Thursday night. The Star