Durban - This is the plush eight-bedroom home in the upmarket suburb of uMhlanga where Nigerian Pastor Timothy Omotoso allegedly kept and preyed on Cheryl Zondi. The 22 year old caught the public attention this week when she waived her rights to anonymity and detailed in front of television news cameras how she was sexually assaulted when she was only 14 years old by Omotoso while a member of his Jesus Dominion International church. The 58 year old charismatic televangelist faces a string of charges including rape, and the alleged trafficking of more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to this very house in uMhlanga where he allegedly sexually abused them. It is at this house on Ride Road which has two driveway entrances and a sweeping view of the ocean where Omotoso is alleged to have held Zondi and first began to exploit her sexually. When the Daily News visited the house on Tuesday, a woman and three men came out. There were two cars and a bakkie parked in the yard. The occupants, who did not want to give their names, said they were renting the house. One of the men said they were aware of the allegations the pastor faced but did not know him personally. They were aware that the house they were renting was once used by Omotoso but said that it did not bother them. They said they were watching events of the court case unfold on television. They did not want to let the Daily News inside the property. When the spotlight was first shone on the home, the owner of the home told the Daily News in an interview last year that he had rented to the house to Omotoso's church for R60 000 a month. A neighbour had told the Daily News that while Omotoso lived in the house there was a lot of noise of shouting, laughing, dancing and partying. He had seen girls walking around the verandah naked, wearing skimpy clothing, and doing each other’s hair and taking “selfies”. “There were parties right until 4 am,” he told the Daily News. At times, there were up to 27 women in the house, he claimed, and now and then, a bus would come and pick them up, and then return them. Daily News