Cape Town - Just a few hours before the inaugural investment summit, South Africa will see the launch of the first ever Impact Investment Forum on Thursday, aimed at positioning impact investing as part of the country's investment drive. Impact investing is the practice of investing money in order to generate social or environmental impact alongside a financial return. Although the practice has been gaining momentum globally and has the potential to address poverty, inequality and unemployment, this is the first time in SA that it is receiving focus. Organiser of the launch of SA Impact Investment Forum, which also comes a day after the tabling of the Mid-term Budget Speech, Elias Masilela and  chairman of the South African Impact Investing National Task Force warned of a "collision course" unless the problems were addressed. "We have the resources to change that trajectory. But will we do what is necessary to put them to work?” Masilela said. President Cyril Ramaphosa wants to raise R1.2 trillion in new investment into South Africa over the next five years. "Raising the money is one thing. Knowing where it will make the most impact is another. By linking these two, President Ramaphosa has shown an appreciation that growth for the sake of growth is not enough,” added Masilela According to the Global Impact Investing Network, the amount of money committed to impact investing globally has more than doubled in the last year. From $114 billion in mid-2017, there is now $230 billion in funds targeting investments that not only generate a financial return, but deliver positive environmental and social outcomes as well. Masilela said as a developing country with significant socio-economic challenges, South Africa was best placed for impact investing both for investors and the entrepreneurs developing innovative business models. The SA Impact Investing National Task Force is made up of representatives from government, research institutions and private capital and It includes Absa chairman Wendy Lucas-Bull and former FirstRand group chief executive, Sizwe Nxasana. Head of Innovative Finance Lead at the Bertha Centre for Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship at the UCT Graduate School of Business, Susan de Witt, welcomed the Forum, saying there was a need to build momentum in the sector through research, advocacy and by fostering relationships between those who had capital, and those finding strategic ways to deploy it. “The owners and managers of capital are coming to recognise that not only are current trajectories unsustainable, they are also not financially viable in the long term. At the same time, the business opportunities associated with delivering positive outcomes are significant. The links between financial returns, and addressing societal and environmental imperatives have become clear,” added de Witt. Lucas-Bull, who will be a keynote speaker at the event, said stakeholders needed to work together to stimulate economic growth and make sure that that growth was inclusive. "It's not just a government issue by itself, and it's not just a business issue by itself. It needs government, business, and social and labour partners to be pulling in the same direction," Lucas-Bull said. Weekend Argus 