Cape Town - Servants of football in Cape Town who had a strong focus on grassroots development will be honoured at the 2018 edition of the FC Kapstadt Cup. The cup competition is known as the "Mother City's premier grassroots football festival". It takes place at Hartleyvale Stadium, Observatory, Cape Town, from October 12 to 14. "In our mission to grow the next generation of soccer greats, FC Kapstadt will honour legends of the game from years gone by," the club said in a statement," players and administrators who relentlessy entertained and provided wisdom to nurture the future of South African football. "Recently FC Kapstadt and the soccer fraternity at large bid farewell to two stalwarts of the beautiful game who paved the way for current players over the years and broke barriers with their talent and commitment to local football," the club said. To this end, the club has renamed two of its trophies after legends of the beautiful game in Cape Town. The under-13 championship trophy will be called the Bienie Alexander Cup in honour of the memory of the "late SAFA-CT, FAWP, RYGATE and FC Kapstadt Exco Member who dedicated his life to serve Cape Town and South African football". Alexander also served on the 2010 FIFA World Cup Organising Committee in Cape Town. He died last year. The player of the tournament trophy is being renamed after one of South African football's greats. The Reggie Jantjies Award is so named in honour of the former Bafana Bafana midfielder and former FC Kapstadt Vodacom team head who passed away last month. Jantjies "was hailed as a football giant with Hellenic and Cape Town Spurs in his playing days," the club said. "These two men were examples of how passion for the game will set a player apart and it is our hope that young players will emulate their example and remember them as key players in our local soccer history," the club said. The annual festival draws a huge crowd and the 2018 edition is set to be no different, with an expected crowd of up to 8 000 over the course of the weekend. Entry costs R8 for adults and R5 for kids. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus