Cape Town - In a dramatic resignation announcement on the steps of the Western Cape High Court, Patricia de Lille also quit as a member of the DA. She had approached the court to set aside both reports compiled by forensic law firm Bowman Gillfillan. But, despite the ongoing court battles, De Lille would indeed resign at 7pm on Wednesday, October 31. She signed her resignation letter on the steps of the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday afternoon. This comes after Council Speaker Dirk Smit laid charges against both De Lille and her mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron. The final forensic reports were received by the councillors last week. One report cleared De Lille of wrongdoing, while a second one recommended that she and Herron and suspended transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead be criminally charged. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Bowman Gilfillan was tasked with probing allegations of maladministration and corruption in the City’s administration. Among the findings, the report pointed out that De Lille had persuaded and blocked former City manager Achmat Ebrahim from reporting corruption involving MyCiTi buses to the tune of millions of rand to Council, and therefore recommended that criminal charges be pursued against De Lille, Herron and other officials. At the centre of the investigation was suspended transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead who was allegedly involved in the corruption involving a tender for electric buses worth R286 million and the provision of Volvo bus chassis worth about R43 million. At council last week it was resolved that the report by Bowman Gilfillan recommending the matter, and officials and/or service providers involved be reported to the police, would be adopted. De Lille said she believes the law firm was colluding with politicians and accused them of "eating the money of ratepayers". She also said that she had agreed to resign at 7pm on Wednesday evening. @JasonFelix  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus