The court also heard that the suspects were guided by an IS handbook on how to build bombs and take part in violent acts against non-Muslims. The evidence emerged as the State opposed bail in the case of 11 men accused of a number of bomb attacks across the city. Eight IS flags were found on the property, which is owned by one of the accused, Farhad Hoomer, 42, who the State fingered as the ringleader of a group that has been meeting for more than a year. The State’s investigation revealed that the men were guided by a manual titled MujGuide, which was recovered on a digital device owned by the businessman. “This manual provides highly relevant detail on how to carry out a terrorist attack, including bomb-making plans and recipes,” the State revealed. Prosecutor Adele Barnard revealed aspects of the State’s “overwhelmingly strong” case against the men, who are also accused of attacking a Verulam mosque where worshippers’ throats were slit. Packed in a lengthy affidavit by the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Kwezi Chonco, the State said the incendiary devices had been triggered by cellphones linked to the suspects, specifically Hoomer. Chonco said Hoomer’s cellphone was used with different SIM cards to extort money from three prominent businesses, and the same handset was used to detonate the bomb at the Verulam mosque. One of his vehicles, a VW Polo, was also in the uMhlanga area in July when explosive devices were placed in the Woolworths store in Gateway. Chonco said in his affidavit that CCTV footage was analysed and several African men were identified placing the improvised incendiary devices in the Woolworths stores. “Once photographs of the accused are taken, they will be sent to the lab for analysis,” the State said. It was found that after the attack on the Imam Hussein Mosque in Verulam, the suspects fled in a white Hyundai Getz, which was recovered at Hoomer’s premises in Reservoir Hills. An incendiary device and Eco Candi handset, used to detonate incendiary devices, were found on the property. According to the State’s affidavit, Hoomer had prior business dealings with two businesses that were allegedly being extorted. It was alleged the suspects asked for $100000 (R1.4million) to be deposited into a Dubai bank account. This money was allegedly to be used to support IS-linked activity in South Africa. The businesses would be set alight if they did not pay. Chonco said another Reservoir Hills property where a Tanzanian was found chained in a dungeon belonged to Hoomer. He said the kidnapped victim identified Hoomer in a parade. During his bail application on Monday, Hoomer told the court he owned a number of businesses, including imports and trade in gold. He said he had two wives and was a father of eight children who depended on him financially and emotionally. The men’s bail application hearing was postponed to tomorrow.  kailene.pillay@inl.co.za  The Mercury