The “Big Five” promise to bring to Capetonians a night full of laughter, fun and a little something to think about. The Big Five Comedy Show has been a sold-out affair for the past two years, and founder of the show, comedian Stuart Taylor, hopes this year will be even bigger. “The debut show had an exceptional reception. It was sold out even before the show happened. “I think that is because Capetonians hadn’t had a pure comedy show in a long time and they were excited about it. “The second year was even bigger and we can only hope to have an even better year,” he said. Taylor “started toying with the idea to showcase our uniquely comedic style in the rest of the world, but would need to trial the concept first in South Africa”. “I gave it a lot of thought and started thinking about the comics I’d want to work with. “The name ‘Big 5’ popped up as a uniquely African concept that is known around the world, and has very positive connotations. The rest, as they say, is history.” Taylor also likened Tumi Morake, Joey Rasdien, John Vlismas, Jason Goliath and himself to the African big five, saying the comedians were all giants in their own right and “it is as rare spotting the Big 5 itself”. “Seeing a line-up of comics of this calibre performing together is extraordinary, and is also made up of comics with diverse performance styles - ensuring that there is truly something for everyone,” Taylor said. While he pegs himself as the more grounded one who brings everything together, Taylor said that not only would Morake have you in stitches, but she would also leave you with questions about just about everything that is life. Rasdien is a bit left-of-centre, Goliath will bring on some unexpected excitement and Vlismas will provide exceptional entertainment. Legendary DJ Ready D will join the comics on stage to manage the mood by infusing some of his music and interacting with the comics. “Ready D plays an amazing role; he sets the tone for everyone,” said Goliath. Morake told Weekend Argus that fans could expect to be entertained with some good old-fashioned jokes and her typically unconventional mom tales. Speaking from the back of an Uber ride, Goliath promised to bring down the house with his “usual unexpectedness, lots of personal stories but I can be swayed to talk about how my flight was or my hotel room, but I'm sure that everyone will leave exhausted from all the laughter”. Grab your tickets at www.computicket.com or from any Computicket outlet such as Shoprite and Checkers Moneymarkets. Tickets range from R180 to R300 and the event is rated PG16. Doors open at 7pm and the show will commence at 8pm. Follow Big 5 on social media: #big5comedy Facebook: Big 5 Comedy Show Twitter: @big5comedy Instagram: big5comedyshow