CAPE TOWN - Patricia de Lille told journalists she was tired of the abuse and the drama in the DA when she resigned from her position and the party on the steps of the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday where she earlier filed an application to have two Bowmans law firm reports reviewed and set aside. In one report into corruption and maladministration in the City of Cape Town, De Lille is found complicit in irregularities, while in the second report, she is cleared of wrongdoing. The reports were tabled in council last week. De Lille vowed to clear her name, but said she would take the next two weeks to consult with her family about her next move. Signing her resignation letter on the court steps, she said she was also resigning as a member of the Democratic Alliance (DA).      #PatriciaDeLille says she will now take two weeks of leave to consult with family on a way forward in terms of clearing her name which was smeared publicly by idiots. @WeekendArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/G4rQW1Ei6q  — Tshego Lepule (@tshegofatsang) 
 October 31, 2018  "When people abuse you, you must walk away. When you have to work with people throwing dirt at you on a daily basis, you walk away". She said two councillors had also tendered their resignations with immediate effect, and that more would follow. "I am now free. I am free", she said.      Copy of letter of resignation by #PatriciaDeLille @IOL @WeekendArgus pic.twitter.com/hCJJ9tagFP  — Tshego Lepule (@tshegofatsang) 
 October 31, 2018  De Lille's resignation brings an end to 18 months of hostilities between her and the DA. "I am quite frankly relieved to be freed from an environment of extreme and hatred which serves no one", she said to applauds from of her supporters. "De Lille said as early as July the DA had laid charges against her based on the council commissioned report. which was only made available to the council last week, adding that there was clearly no separation of powers between the party and the council. "It is important to note that the Bowmans reports are just that: reports. They are not judgments. "The evidence Bowmans relies on in compiling their politically manipulated report must be tested in court and only a court can find me guilty," De Lille said. She said she also had evidence to suggest that Bowmans were colluding with politicians and "eating ratepayers’ money" in the process. Over and above the R5 million that they had been paid in October the City manager approved by deviation an additional R800 000. She thanked the citizens of Cape Town for allowing her to serve them as mayor. "However, my resignation today, sadly marks the end of that project". "I leave with no regrets, and I can hold my head high, knowing that I worked day and night to serve the people of Cape Town,". Two more DA councilors, Philiswa Maarman a ward councilor in Khayelitsha and Jonathan Cupido, a Ward 32 councillor for some parts of Bonteheuwel, Valhalla Park and Montana, also announced their resignations, bringing to seven the number of councillors who have resigned since last Thursday." "More resignations will soon hit the DA", warned one of the supporters. De Lille said she would make an announcement on her future at the end of a "two-weeks' holiday during which she would also consult with her family. Weekend Argus