Cape Town - With Guy Fawkes and Diwali just days apart in early November, the City of Cape Town has designated 11 public open spaces for the discharge of fireworks on 5 and 7 November, as well as for New Year’s Eve. Members of the public who want to partake in the discharge of fireworks to mark Guy Fawkes and Diwali next month will have access to 11 sites designated for this purpose. Guy Fawkes takes place on November 5, and the Hindu Festival of Lights, Diwali, follows two days later on November 7. The City reminds the public that the discharge of fireworks on these days will only be allowed at the following sites: •               Athlone Stadium parking area (eastern side), Klipfontein Road, Athlone •               Wesfleur sports field, Reygersdal Drive, Atlantis •               Bishop Lavis sports field, Lavis Drive, Bishop Lavis •               Metropolitan sports grounds, Melkhout Street, Bonteheuwel •               Blue Downs sports field •               Delft Central sports grounds, Main Road, Delft •               Macassar Beach parking area, Macassar Road •               Swartklip sports complex, Swartklip Road, Mitchells Plain •               Sarepta sports complex •               Strandfontein Pavilion •               Tourism Centre, Athens Road, Table View beachfront All designated fireworks areas will be patrolled by City Law Enforcement and Metro Police as well as a fire inspector to ensure the safety of all concerned. The discharge of fireworks will not be allowed after 23:00 on Guy Fawkes and Diwali, with New Year’s Eve being the exception. Residents are reminded of the following: ·         Only fireworks bought at an accredited shop may be discharged according to the instructions on the package ·         Fireworks may only be discharged at the designated sites and out of range of structures or vehicles ·         Children must be supervised at all times when around fireworks ·         Do not light fireworks inside any type of container ·         Never discharge fireworks while under the influence of intoxicating substances ·         The Community Fire Safety By-law prohibits the use of Chinese lanterns "Children and animals are often the victims of fireworks-related injuries and this year I want to focus on reducing the number of injuries to these vulnerable groups during Guy Fawkes," the City of Cape Town's safety chief JP Smith said. "I urge parents to keep a watchful eye over their children and to ensure that they are supervised at all times. In the meantime, pet owners should keep their pets indoors as far as possible as pets are left traumatised, particularly by the illegal discharge of fireworks in residential areas. "Just yesterday, Law Enforcement officers confiscated illegal fireworks at a shop in the Pelican Park Centre. A fine of R1 500 was issued for selling fireworks without a permit and I’m sure they’ll confiscate more fireworks in the next few weeks. I want to remind the public once more to please be our eyes and ears and to blow the whistle on the illegal sale of fireworks," said Smith. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus