Cape Town - The mesmerising universality of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival (CTIJF) is evident in its latest announcement of 12 artists from a range ofmusical styles and different parts of the world. The 20th annual CTIJF is set to take place on 29 and 30 March 2019, at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. Festival organiser espAfrika is proud to present its third reveal of artists, offering traditional jazz, hip hop and experimental sounds. Collaborations also feature prominently with this batch of artists, as musicians from various nationalities will share the stage at the upcoming 20th celebration of Africa’s Grandest Gathering, held annually in Cape Town. Blurring genres and upending expectations is Cory Henry & The Funk Apostles (USA), led by organ virtuoso Cory Henry; The Mike Rossi Project featuring John Fedchock (SA/USA), featuring Rossi, a professor of music from the University of Cape Town and two-time Grammy nominee Fedchock, an established world-class trombonist; London-based saxophonist and composer Nubya Garcia (UK), who is one of the leading forces behind the resurgence of jazz-influenced sounds; South Peninsula High School Band (SA) chosen from a selection of school bands who participated in the festival’s annual Sustainable Training & Development Music & Career programme. Bickram Ghosh Quartet (India), led by one of India’s greatest masters of the tabla and widely regarded as a pioneering force in the world of experimental fusion music; Oliver Mtukudzi with special guest Vusi Mahlasela (ZIM/ SA), two of southern Africa’s greatest musicians and songwriters; The Reza Khota Quartet (SA), led by Reza Khota and including well-known local musicians offering a range of experimental sounds; Nicole Mitchell’s Black Earth Ensemble (USA), whose music weaves swing, blues, avante garde jazz, bebop, African rhythms, Eastern modes and Western classical sounds; Alfa Mist (UK), a self-taught pianist and rapper drawn to jazz and world music, who blends melancholy jazz harmony with alternative hip hop and soul; The Mill (SA/ Swiss), a South African/Swiss collaboration offering a mish-mash of horn arrangements, piano and razor-sharp guitar; Los Angeles-based musical duo Knower (USA), featuring drummer-producer Louis Cole and singer Genevieve Artadi, and Keyon Harrold (USA), whose music draws on elements of jazz, classical, rock, blues, and hip hop to create something uniquely modern. Previously announced artists include ten-time Grammy Award winner, Queen of Funk Chaka Khan (USA); award-winning jazz pianist Eliane Elias (Brazil); multi-instrumentalist, neo-soul group Moonchild (USA); South Africa’s first all-female big band, The Lady Day Big Band (SA); and local sensation, singer/ songwriter Shekhinah (SA); South African jazz legend Don Laka (SA); chart-topping vocalist Craig Lucas (SA); seven-piece indigenous band known for their outstanding live performances BCUC (SA); local jazz master and saxophonist Don Vino (SA); rapper Sho Madjozi (SA) who infuses her rhymes with Gqom beats; creative phenomenon and vocalist Ntsika (SA); and two-time Grammy award winners Soweto Gospel Choir (SA). Festival Director Billy Domingo says the best part of the CTIJF is that it offers a global experience, with the latest talent sharing a platform with established favourites. After CTIJF’s host city was recently crowned as the Events Capital of Africa, Domingo explains how this echoes the festival’s ethos and brings home the festival’s own title as Africa’s Grandest Gathering. “For years, the festival has been known as Africa’s Grandest Gathering, and now our slogan has come home. It’s amazing that after all these years, our host city has become the Events Capital of the continent. “The growth of this festival has always been dependent on critique from our audience. We’ve listened and next year we aim to deliver. In the last few years, we’ve focussed on artist collaborations instead of solo acts to offer our festinos a truly unique entertainment experience, encompassing more than one artist or group at a time.” says Domingo. Ticket sales for CTIJF 2019 are open at Computicket. Loyal festival-goers are in for a treat, as a limited amount of Weekend Pass tickets are available at R999. Thereafter, CTIJF 2019 Weekend Passes will remain the same price as last year:- Weekend Pass: R 1290- Day Pass: R 850 Official sponsors of the 20th annual Cape Town International Jazz Festival are the Department of Arts and Culture, Independent Media, AYO Technology Solutions and host city, the City of Cape Town. CTIJF 2019 Premier Hospitality packages are on sale now: Celebrate 20 years of jazz, with new features and exciting early bird specials, experience the very best that Africa’s Grandest Gathering has to offer in 2019! Contact Samantha Pienaar on 021 671 05 06 or email hospitality@espafrika.com for more information. @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus