The Road to the Idols SA season 14 finalé is narrowing fast. Tonight South Africa will bid goodbye to one of its favourite Idols who did not receive enough votes to perform in the top six, which will see each contestant perform two songs for the first time in the competition this year. Independent Media spoke to two of the contestants - the youngest remaining in season 14, Yanga Sobetwa, 16, and the oldest remaining, Thato Makape, 23. This is what Sobetwa had to say: Do you know how great a vocalist you are?  Sobetwa: I know I am great, but I consider others better than I am in my talent and in my vocal abilities. I enjoy singing, and I want to have a career in music that will see me grow as a vocalist. For someone so young and talented, do you have dreams to be anything outside of being a musician or vocalist - a career in astronomy, finance or anything else? Or as (Idols judge) Somizi Mhlongo said, did God send him to tell you that you will be “the best super stage star”? Sobetwa: I want to be an entertainment lawyer. That has always been my dream since I was a back-up singer. I have seen a lot of musicians being robbed because they have no idea what their rights are or how much they are worth. What has been the highlight for you so far in the competition? Sobetwa: It is knowing that every time I perform, someone out there is inspired. This keeps me grounded. At 16, you chose the road less travelled. What would you say to a teenager out there who is scared to follow his or her dreams because society tells them that they are still too young?  Sobetwa: David in the Bible, he was very young, 17, when he was anointed King of Israel. They must follow their dreams and find a mentor. It makes life easier to have someone guide you and make you believe in your dreams. What should we expect from you tonight: Another performance worth a “woah shem!”? Sobetwa: I don’t perform with expectation. What I do is to ensure that I enjoy myself every time I am on that Idols stage. Makape also let us into his confidence: You have been described as a full-package by Idols judges; do you think there is still more we haven’t see from you? Makape: I got into the competition to learn. I’ve learned a lot, grown as a musician. It helps me with my strategy to perform better every Sunday. What has been your highlight? Makape: My performance for the top 16. I took the criticism from the judges as something constructive. I build on what they say - it makes me better and also grows my confidence. After watching you at the Show- Stopper, one couldn’t but think that you are one of those people who used to “vula the circle” back in high school and show off their dance moves. Is it true? Makape: You are so right, Bro! During lunch breaks, when we got bored we would do the circle and show off our moves. If you were not on Idols this season, what would you be doing? Makape : I would be doing gigs and more gigs. I would be pushing my brand, and ensuring that I keep my singing career alive. But today the Idols platform is giving me enough exposure. The Sunday Independent