Cape Town - Cape Town International Airport was named Africa’s Leading Airport for the second consecutive year at the 25th World Travel Awards Africa & Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony held at the Durban International Convention Centre on Saturday night. The gala awards ceremony was attended by senior executives from major travel companies, operators and destinations. Representatives of CTIA, Yolisa Mlawuti, Key Account Manager and Razack Rawoot, Senior Manager: Finance were in Durban to receive the award on behalf of the airport. “Cape Town International Airport is honoured to once again receive this very important accolade. Being named Africa’s Leading Airport for the second year is extremely gratifying and reinforces the hard work and commitment to excellence demonstrated at this airport in the past 12 months,” said Cape Town International Airport Senior Manager: Corporate Affairs Deidre Davids. "Recognised across the globe as the ultimate independently assessed travel accolade, the World Travel Awards are voted for by travel and tourism professionals and consumers worldwide. The awards serve to recognise, reward and celebrate excellence across all sectors of the global travel and tourism industry," the Airports CompanySA (ACSA) said in a statement. "Airports Company South Africa is delighted to be named among the travel sector’s top performers of 2018, with both O.R. Tambo International and Cape Town International airports also being nominated for the World’s Leading Airport 2018, which will be announced at the World Travel Awards Grand Final Gala Ceremony on 1 December 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal," it said. "Cape Town remains a firm destination of choice for global travellers and over the past few years Cape Town International Airport has shown sustained growth in passenger numbers with a 5.3% increase year-on-year in 2017. Growth in international passengers has been in double digits for the past few years. The airport exceeded the 10 million passenger-per-year milestone for the first time in December 2016, which repeated again in December 2017 when passenger numbers significantly exceeded this mark. "Through partnerships such as Western Cape Air Access the airport has seen 13 new routes and 18 route expansions since 2015. October marks the start of the peak season where its seasonal carriers start up their summer schedules. Cape Town International has already welcomed Edelweiss which connects the city to Zurich, Condor which connects the city to Frankfurt and Lufthansa with its Munich-to-Cape Town frequencies in operation," ACSA said. Davids concluded: "We are anticipating yet another bumper peak season in Cape Town and our team is prepped and ready to welcome all of our visitors to the fairest Cape and to facilitate their movement through the airport en route to their holiday destinations." @TheCapeArgus  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus