CAPE TOWN - Officers from Manenburg SAPS deployed in the area to combat gang violence and prevent crime, were conducting routine patrols early in the morning on October 25, when they arrested a 32-year-old male for the possession of a firearm and ammunition. “Police members were doing high-density patrols in Jordaan Street when they saw a suspicious looking man standing at a shop near a delivery truck. When members approached him he started to move away from the truck,” explained police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk.  The members cornered him and searched him, walked him back to where he was standing and searched the immediate area he said.   They found a 9mm pistol hidden on the truck. The 9mm pistol with seven rounds of ammunition had its serial number still intact. Further investigation indicated that the firearm was reported stolen in Athlone in 2017.  The 32-year-old male was arrested and will be appearing at the Athlone Magistrate Court soon on charges of possession of an illegal unlicensed firearm.  Anyone with information regarding illegal firearms and ammunition in the Manenberg area is requested to contact Manenberg SAPS on 021 699 9400 or Crime Stop 08600 10111.  In an unrelated incident, on October 24 at about 5.30pm members from Delft Crime Prevention were performing operations, including shebeens, gang houses and drug houses with a special focus on stolen properties, liquor, firearms, and drugs.  During this operation, members visited an alleged illegal shebeen in N2 Gateway, Delft. “The 35-year-old owner of the house was present. The house was searched for liquor and two cases of beer were found in the house. On further searches in the other rooms, members found six flat screen televisions, one two burner combo stove, and one digital photo frame,” said Van Wyk. The owner of the house could not provide ownership of the mentioned items, and he was arrested. The presumed stolen items valued at around R40 000 and liquor were seized. The suspect is due to appear in the Bellville Magistrates court once he has been charged. Weekend Argus