Cape Town - Police are on the hunt for a suspect in connection with the abduction of an eight-year-old girl in Goodwood. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said police have released images captured on surveillance cameras in Goodwood which may help in the arrest of the suspect. "On 1 September 2018 at around 18:00, an unknown adult male wearing blue denim jeans, a royal blue and black jacket with black sneakers approached the victim, an eight-year-old female and her grandmother with a proposal to have the child participate in an activity at a mall in Goodwood. The grandmother agreed and they walked together. On route to the mall, they stopped at a garage and the suspect gave the grandmother money to buy refreshments. She went into the shop, leaving the child with the suspect, and upon her return from the shop, they were gone," Traut said. The police said the suspect walked with the child along the railway line, from Goodwood to Century City where she managed to pull away from him and went to search for help. The suspect fled the scene and his identity is unknown. "If you recognise the suspect, or have any information that can assist us with the investigation, kindly contact Warrant Officer Edwin Japhta on 021 5901001, or 0825221095," said Traut. Meanwhile, two people have been charged with the alleged murder of a Sea Point hotel manager. Sillico Zainauet Oliphant, 36, and Moegamat Faizel Abrahams, 38, appeared at Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Monday on a charge of murder. They were arrested on October 19 after the Hawks’ probe implicated them in the murder of Craig Mathieson, 44, who was allegedly shot and killed in November 2016. “The deceased was a hotel manager at Sea Point at the time of the incident. The case against the duo was postponed to the 30 October 2018 for a formal bail application,” said the spokesperson for the Hawks, Captain Philani Nkwalase. The Hawks Provincial Head in Western Cape, Major General Nombuso Portia Khoza has welcomed the arrest and commended the Hawks Serious Organised Crime Investigation team for working diligently to ensure that the alleged perpetrators face their day in court. @WeekendArgus  wknews@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus