First on her list is businessman Anthony Faul, for R1million for defamation. “This week I was notified by the Hawks that the senior public prosecutor has considered the evidence regarding the case of bribery made against me in relation to bogus allegations by a Mr Anthony Faul and the decision was made to not institute a prosecution against me,” De Lille said. The DA’s Federal Executive laid charges of bribery and corruption against De Lille earlier in February, alleging that she solicited a R5million bribe from Vanderbijlpark businessman Anthony Faul in January 2013. It's alleged that De Lille sought money in exchange for her support of his company to supply fire extinguishers to informal settlements in Cape Town. De Lille has repeatedly disputed the allegations and questioned the timing of the criminal charges as in that same month she faced a motion of no confidence against her which she survived. AFO had the rights to a product known as the AFO Fire Ball, which is an automatic fire extinguisher that Faul claimed was ideally suited to limit the spread of fires in informal settlements. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. On November 14, 2012, Faul met with De Lille and others regarding the product, among them Mayco committee member for Safety and Security JP Smith and other Disaster Risk Management officials. Faul’s proposal was that he would raise the funding for the Fire Balls but he needed a letter of support for the project from the City. “The allegations made by Faul were patently false and a vicious attack on my good name and reputation. As such, they were defamatory in the extreme and I have instructed my lawyers to pursue a defamation case against him for R1m,” De Lille said. In an email dated January 10, 2013 Faul indicated the withdrawal of the endorsement. De Lille added that there was no tender and AFO was never to be paid by the City of Cape Town. De Lille said she will be releasing a list om Wednesday of DA members she intends to tackle legally. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus