Cape Town - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has declined to prosecute outgoing mayor Patricia de Lille on bribery allegations, Weekend Argus has reliably learnt.The decision, related to a R5 million bribery claim by a Joburg businessman, comes just a few weeks before De Lille is to vacate the mayoral office. Anthony Faul claimed earlier this year that in 2012 De Lille tried to solicit a R5m bribe from him in return for a contract to supply fire extinguishers that could be used in informal settlements. A spokesperson for the NPA could not confirm the decision. De Lille confirmed that her lawyers were “studying” the document and she had met them on Saturday afternoon. Instead of putting an end to the political feud between De Lille and the DA, the latest development has opened a new battle in her continuing efforts to clear her name. “My lawyers are studying the decision with a view to taking legal action against all those who were hell-bent on ruining my reputation by spreading false allegations against me that could not be proven,” De Lille said. She is expected to announce the details of the court action soon. The DA’s bungling of its campaign to remove De Lille will cost it heavily. Although she did not name those to be sued, she warned there was a “cabal of white men” behind efforts to get rid of her by “smearing” her name. “It’s been clear to me that there are people who were hell-bent on tarnishing my name while they wanted to get rid of me. I am not done yet with clearing my name. I will get to the bottom of this,” De Lille said yesterday. In January, Faul allegedly laid a complaint with mayoral committee member for safety JP Smith - De Lille’s critic - claiming in late 2012, when Faul was on the verge of being handed a contract, she told him to pay R5m. When he refused, he claimed, De Lille refused him the contract. The DA then laid criminal charges against De Lille in early February. DA Federal executive chairperson James Selfe told the media at the time the party had seen Faul’s affidavit and correspondence between the two. Faul’s claims surfaced a few weeks before the federal executive authorised its caucus at the City of Cape Town to table a motion of no confidence against De Lille. The motion was defeated. The DA was not available for comment on the NPA decision. * Receive IOL's top stories via WhatsApp by sending your name to 0745573535. Weekend Argus