The suspect, who is now on the run, then allegedly buried four of the bodies in the main house and three in the little back room in which he stayed. The deceased, three adults and four children, were between the ages of two and 50. It is alleged that some of the bodies had been at the property since Tuesday last week, and it was a terrible smell that alerted neighbours to the deaths. The corpses were discovered and removed by the police on Monday afternoon. Tebogo Lekotje, the father of 13-year-old Karabo, on Tuesday related his grief and disbelief at his daughter’s death. “I arrived on Monday at 2pm after I received a call from neighbours. I went to the back room, and it was piled to the top with sand. I also noticed footprints of blood, a horrific smell and a blanket that was tied with tape,” he said. Lekotje said the police and forensics experts had arrived and confirmed the family’s nightmare. “They told us there were bodies in the house, as well as in the back room. "Only four members lived at the house, the other three were allegedly lured by ‘Ernest Sibusiso Khoza’, who pretended to be family member on Facebook since 2014, communicating with the owner of the house, and who moved in three months ago. I was not familiar with him,” he said. Upon The Star’s arrival on Tuesday, family members and neighbours were cleaning the house, burning the clothing of the deceased relatives, and preparing for a vigil. The family also discovered documents that had two different names of the accused, who is now on the run. Despite police being unable to find a direct link between a man who was arrested on Tuesday who also lived at the home, neighbours are adamant that he and the suspect are father and son. “The father was arrested this morning and we suspect that he is the one who told his son to kill the family because he wanted the house as they are both (father and son) foreign nationals,” said a neighbour, who declined to be named. Police spokesperson Mavela Masondo urged anyone with information on the suspect’s whereabouts to call the nearest police station, or Crime Stop at 08600 10111. The Star