Plans to privatise emerged after senior executives met at a closed executive meeting this week as “Eskom cannot save itself”. High-ranking officials who spoke to Independent Media on condition of anonymity alluded to major drivers that would result in unbundling Eskom, which is running at a loss without revenue to meet its escalating costs. This week, Eskom confirmed it was working on a new corporate plan that will assess “if any assets will be sold”. Escalating “debt-servicing costs and its primary energy costs” are the drivers. Eskom is R390billion in debt. “Interest plus capital is making it too expensive” to service its debt, said one official. The rate at which the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) were being brought on-board put a significant strain on the utility’s revenue stream. In addition, Eskom is unable to generate earnings before interest tax, depreciation and amortisation of 35% to pay back its debt. It continues with the IPPs and has frozen expenditure on business and stopped spending on maintenance. Executive sources within the organisation confirmed that the IPPs were costing the company close to R90million a day. These costs are passed on to consumers as the National Energy Regulator of SA gave Eskom permission to hike tariffs in April next year, raising electricity prices by as much as 10 to 20%. Khulu Phasiwe, Eskom’s national spokesperson, confirmed a new corporate plan would provide guidance on its structure and its role in renewable energy space. He explained that the plan would address issues such as the staff compliment and “if any assets will be sold”. “It is important to note that staff reductions have not been raised in all the engagements that Eskom has had with the trade unions so far... all these matters will be shared and debated with the trade unions first,” said Phasiwe. Zwelinzima Vavi, general secretary of the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), believed South Africa was being slowly prepared for privatisation of some of its state-owned entities, especially Eskom. “Privatisation is coming, the agenda of IPPs is to put assets in private hands to generate profits for IPPs’ owners. “We condemned the minister of energy unreservedly for hiding such critical information from the public. When they took over, they coined a new slogan which is an empty rhetoric called Thuma Mina and blamed everything wrong on the Zuma presidency. “Although Zuma’s tenure was a disaster, we thought there would be transparency and commitment to giving people confidence. “We are very disappointed that the minister of energy is conniving to keep critical information from us.” Vavi further explained that the selling of Eskom would be a declaration of war against the poor and that Saftu would fight till “the last drop of blood” had fallen. “They are not going to face Saftu alone. They will face the National Union of Metal Workers of SA, the National Union of Mineworkers and even Solidarity and all other 147 working-class organisations. The handing over of power generation to private institutions will be the last nail in the coffin. “The ANC tried to privatise in 1998 which is why they never invested in the building of power stations to deal with electricity demand. When they didn’t invest, it led to blackouts 10 years later. “They ignored advice and it accelerated the de-industrialisation of our economy and the closure of small mines and contributed to joblessness. “If you give it to private hands, we will be in so much trouble that no one will recover from that. As it stands, because of the signing of the IPPs, 90000 people will be thrown into the street and we can’t have that.” Eskom reported a loss last year and is set to continue bleeding unless it increases its sales by around 7 terawatt hours over the next three years. It will not have enough cash flow to meet its operational requirements, rendering a “non-going concern”. Another senior source within the utility revealed that a further 15000 jobs would have to be shed to cut costs and reach its sales revenue targets. “That move will only take us so far. The choices we are faced with are simple. We need to stop the costs that are escalating because the IPPs’ costs are running away and displacing revenue. In order to avoid that, Eskom may have to close down some of its assets leading to more retrenchments at the utility,” he said. Some possible scenarios that have been presented by some Eskom executives to Independent Media that may come into play is that Eskom would have to convert its debt to equity, “which is where the Public Investment Corporation comes in”, said the source. Eskom owes the PIC close to R80billion and, according to sources at Megawatt Park, the simplest choice would be to convert that part of its debt into equity and make some of their suppliers’ partners. The Eskom Finance Company has already been unbundling where a tender was issued, and bids were received. “I can reveal to you that the adjudication process has been completed and a winner has already been identified although I can’t say at the moment. This will be followed by the unbundling where independent markets and systems operator will be appointed by National Treasury and will go through various parliamentary processes. “Eskom’s assets will then be put up for sale to independent distribution businesses and will then be selectively sold out to private players. Other parts of the company will be split into different power station companies and they will be sold. The main beneficiaries will be the cost-plus miners such as Exxaro, Glencore, South32 Mining and Seriti Resources,” he explained. Adrian Lackay, spokesperson for the Department of Public Enterprises, downplayed privatisation as speculative and untrue. “Eskom is a crucial state asset and any changes by the government to Eskom’s mandate, corporate structure or balance sheet, must be done transparently, with cabinet approval, in consultation with stakeholders like organised labour and must be in the interest of the utility itself, the economy and the fiscus,” he said. Anthonie Cilliers, a professional engineer and energy expert, said there appeared to be a lack of political will from the government to keep Eskom as a state-owned entity. A complete restructure of Eskom was needed if South Africa’s security of energy supply security was to be guaranteed. “The problem is that there are players in the energy industry in South Africa looking to make a profit out of our energy crisis. The number-one goal should be about providing electricity and not make a profit, because when private sector players come into the fold, the prices of electricity will shoot through the roof, negatively impacting poor people. The central pillar of the economy is electricity supply. In whatever way, shape or form it ends up in, the government should have a massive stake in the supply of electricity. “When load shedding came in 2008, the first people to see an opportunity for financial gain were private sector players and they smelled blood. Suddenly, there was a market and now it’s in the interest of the private sector to ensure that Eskom performs badly. “Eskom contributes about 6% towards our gross domestic product, which is massive, and there are players that want a piece of the stake and are lobbying within the government and gaining support. “An example is how these players manage to wiggle their way into energy through the IPPs office In most cases it is wind and solar energy companies pushing for the demise of Eskom,” he said. Weekend Argus Weekend Argus