DURBAN – Jose Mourinho was once the 'Special One' during his trophy-laden spells with European giants such as FC Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid. The Manchester United manager has always been synonymous with controversy and success but he is slowly losing his verve, finesse, tenacity and his majesty amongst the European elite managers. The loquacious Portuguese is now the "Most Unwanted One". He is in his last season with the English powerhouse but the Red Devils supporters are already fed up with him. In his tenure with the club, he has only been able to deliver two “useless trophies” in form of the Europa League and the Carabao Cup. Obviously a trophy is a trophy but we are talking about the biggest team in England. We are talking about the team that boasts 20 league titles, three Uefa Champions League triumphs and 12 FA Cups under their belt. Europa League and the Carabao are just the plastic trophies. At clubs like Man U, you are expected to win the league, Champions League or even the FA Cup frequently. These are three cups with history.   Subscribe to the IOL Sport Newsletter!  Last season Mourinho failed to deliver as he lost to Chelsea in the FA Cup final and finished second in the league. I don’t have anything against Mourinho. He has worked so diligently to be where he is but I feel that his days are numbered at the Old Trafford. Signs are there for everyone to witness. The Red Devils are no longer inspiring to watch. They are defensive and dull at times if you compare them to the likes of Liverpool and Manchester City in England. He is busy fighting with key figures like Paul Pogba and Antonio Valencia in the team instead of fighting to win trophies and competing with the likes of Pep Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp. If he is not fighting with his players he is fighting with the media. If he is not fighting with the media he is fighting with the club’s Executive vice-chairman, Ed Woodward. Once he starts fighting with the media, club officials and his players, it is a sign that the exit door is imminent for Mourinho. This is not something new. We know this movie. We’ve seen it before at Chelsea and Real Madrid. During his second spell with Chelsea he started well and delivered the league title in his second year. The barrage of problems started in his third season. He had a bust up with the club doctor, Eva Carneiro. He criticised her for running in to pitch to treat Eden Hazard against Swansea City in a league match in 2015. Mourinho wanted Carneiro to delay the treatment of Hazard because they were already down to 10 men. He then started to fight with senior players. The Portuguese was also dumped out of the Carabao Cup by Stoke City in the early stages of the competition. Recently he was knocked out of the Carabao Cup by championship side, Derby County. In his last season with Madrid in 2012/13, Mourinho experienced the same problems. He had issues with the likes of Ike Casillas, Sergio Ramos and Cristiano Ronaldo. Mourinho didn’t win any silverware in his last season at Madrid. So, Man United fans must not expect any trophies this season. @Minenhlecr7  The Mercury   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 