Ameerodien Noordien, 20, a Gift of the Givers aid worker, was gunned down outside a shop in the area on Friday. Ameerodien, who joined the Gift of the Givers in January this year, was part of the group of paid workers who moved, stacked, packed and distributed containers of water to drought-stricken areas across the province. His father Mogamat Alwie Noordien explained he was the breadwinner in the house and helped care for his mother Fatima, who was on dialysis. Ameerodien washed and even dressed his mother. Noordien said he couldn’t believe that his son was dead. “We don’t know what we are going to do without him,” he said, breaking down in tears. The heartbroken father described his son as a “very good person” who was respectful. “He was a funny guy. A happy chappy who smiled with everyone.” Meanwhile, Ali Sablay, a project manager for the Gift of the Givers and Ameerodien’s mentor, said he joined the organisation because he was looking for an alternative to crime and a way to get himself and his family out of Hanover Park. Sablay explained although Ameerodien was a volunteer, the organisation paid them as they understood that most of these young people came from impoverished areas. Sablay said Ameerodien was a very quiet person who always had a smile on his face. He explained all the farmers loved Ameerodien and even came together when they heard of his death to collect money for the family. “The farmers can recall him very well.” Sablay said Ameerodien was always eager to work and would be waiting at his gate when they came to pick him up. Meanwhile, Imtiaz Sooliman asked: “How many more innocent deaths will it take? How many more young children must die violently and tragically? How many more parents and siblings must suffer anguish before we act decisively as a nation to stem the endemic community disorder of gangsterism, drugs and violence?” He said Ameerodien wanted out of poverty, but in an honest and dignified way - “no drugs, no gangsterism, no violence, only honesty, integrity, hard sweat and lawful earnings to take care of his family”. “His mother, Fatima, wanted to see the development of a righteous child, on the straight path, an asset to society.” However, instead, he was killed on Friday after 7pm in Hanover Park. “Three bullets in the back, one in the head, caught in the crossfire of those who act with impunity, who respect neither law, nor human value, nor the sanctity of life and get away time and time again. “Innocent Ameerodien was killed. Decency, hope, aspiration, youth and vibrancy died at the hands of arrogance.” Sooliman is pleading with Police Minister Bheki Cele to do more to stop the violence. “Dear Honourable Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, the need to make South Africa safer for its 57 million people cannot be more urgent than the present. “It is clear that you are trying your best to stem crime since taking office earlier this year despite the challenges of resources and personnel. The Western Cape needs a Westbury-style intervention and we call upon you to make this a reality.” The MEC for community safety, Dan Plato, said he was shocked to hear of the murder. “It shows the senselessness of killings and the state of violence in our community. Those responsible don’t care any more. Our deepest condolences to his family and the Gift of the Givers.” Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said that on Friday at 7.50pm four victims were standing in front of the tuck shop in Surwood Walk, Hanover Park, when an unidentified suspect approached them and brandished a firearm. “The suspect shot at the victims multiple times and struck all four victims. One of the victims, a 20-year-old, passed on due to the nature of his injuries. “Circumstances surrounding the incident are unknown at this stage. A murder and three attempted murder cases were registered for investigation.” Weekend Argus