Durban - The ANC scored a historic victory in Chatsworth on Thursday after 26-year-old human rights lawyer Previn Vedan won the party its first ever seat for Ward 71 during a by-election. According to preliminary results by the Independent Electoral Commission, Vedan beat the DA’s Fatima Ismail by 469 votes with the IFP, EFF, MF, ACDP, Al Jama-ah and DLC picking up the minor placings - in the hotly contested Ward 71 by-election. While not officially confirmed by the IEC, the preliminary results, announced early on Thursday show that the ANC won 2794 votes, the DA 2325 and the IFP 603. The ward became available earlier this year after the DA Ward councillor, Sharon Hoosen was moved to the KwaZulu-Natal legislature after a DA shake-up in the eThekwini Municipality. Vedan's victory - that some analysts believe is partly due to a renewed confidence in the ANC leadership under President Cyril Ramaphosa among minority communities. The Ward has previously been held by the Minority Front and for the last 10 years by the DA. “As the ANC, we are gracious in victory,” said the first time councillor who extended an open hand to the others parties to work with him in uplifting the diverse community. This week the ANC brought out the big guns in the city to campaign for Vedan which included Mayor Zandile Gumede, former mayor, James Nxumalo, former deputy mayor Logie Naidoo and KZN Human Settlements MEC, Ravi Pillay. Ward 71 comprises Shallcross, Crossmoor, Moorton and Bottlebrush. Vedan said he was especially excited to win the voting district in his home base of Shallcross, which includes middle class homes, and a sprawling community in council-owned rental flats. Vedan ran on a ticket of “new generation, new hope, new energy” inspired by the Thuma Mina campaign led by Ramaphosa. “This is a new dawn for our community. I am under no illusions about the challenges we face to ensure that all our people live in dignity, safety and harmony.  This is going to take daily hard work on the ground and that work starts now.  We have been careful not to make promises that we cannot keep but the expectations of our people are very high,” he said. Ravi Pillay said: “This campaign is an important signal of deepening non-racialism, uniting our people and building our country”. Daily News